 MBOMBELA – Donors and other supporters flocked to the blood drive for SANBS held at i’langa Mall to blood bail-out prominent members of the Lowveld community who had been detained for the purpose. Also read: WARNING: Critical blood shortage The event was organised by the Nelspruit SANBS Donor Committee. The aim was to raise public awareness for donations, while increasing the blood supply for the festive season. Also read: Blood drive for survivors revs up awareness According to committee member Bruce Macaulay, the need for an increase in donations stems from the fact that there is usually an increase in the number of gunshot wounds, stabbings, pedestrian and motor-car accidents and a decrease in the number of donations. Pierre Nel, Hennie van der Linde and Elgars Disco. Those detained included branch manager of Voltex Nelspruit, Shawn Erasmus, Past TJ Mare, editor of Lowvelder, De Wet Potgieter, distributor at Herbalife Independent, Hennie van der Linde, marketing and media manager at Innibos, Sandra Jacobs, the managing director of KMIA, Marius Nel, owner of Smartfin Solutions, Karen Maritz, Sir Africa 2017, Rodney Haywood, Mrs Africa Earth, Simoné Harber, Lizel Austin in her own private capacity and the organiser for City Changers Social Services Association, Noelien Farrell Neethling. These individuals each had to get 12 people to donate blood before they could be released. According to the chairman of the committee, Marietjie Oosthuizen, the event was a massive success. Oosthuizen thanked members of the public: “I wish to give a huge thank you to everyone who donated. We have recorded 148 units of blood after setting a target of 120. Words cannot describe how much the committee appreciates this.” An additional 17 people meant to donate, but were deferred, for low iron levels on the day, for instance. SANBS takes the safety of their donors that seriously. Mark Kinnear with his donor card. The card shows that he last donated in 1987. The committee is always looking for members and for potential donors. For more information on how to join or how to become a blood donor, contact Oosthuizen on 083-296-1597. Alternatively, you can contact Yolande Nel on 083-607-2232 or Macaulay on 079-883-7806.