 A team of nature-loving South Africans in partnership with Google Street View have released a collection of 360-degree imagery of the country’s wildest areas. https://youtu.be/76V-Vhq2feo (01:57) The announcement of 170 new trails in South Africa’s national parks and reserves follows on The Mzansi Experience launched in March 2016, which showcased prominent tourist attractions such as Kruger National Park, Table Mountain and Cape Point. “Harnessing technology allows SANParks to showcase the 19 South African National Parks like never before,” said Janine Raftopoulos, SANParks head of communications. “ We are really excited that this introduces a new dimension to planning a trip and what better way to do it than through a virtual itinerary which you can then make reality.” https://youtu.be/ki7mhJjpAI8 (05:10) The new trails extend the existing Street View imagery of South Africa’s wilderness areas to include all 19 national parks, 17 previously ‘un-trekked’ nature reserves and many sites of natural, cultural and historical significance in all nine provinces of South Africa. More than 200 volunteers from across the country were involved in the 12-month project, mapping out parts of South Africa. Many were SANParks, CapeNature and KZN Ezemvelo Wildlife rangers and guides. Others were avid hikers, nature-lovers and tech enthusiasts. https://youtu.be/76V-Vhq2feo (01:57) The project forms part of Google’s Street View Camera Loan Program, which encourages anyone to apply to borrow the 360-degree camera technology and help map the planet. To showcase the launch of South Africa’s new Street View imagery, Drive South Africa has launched a microsite that gives would-be travellers a virtual experience of South Africa. The microsite South Africa in 360 is an immersive VR-adventure through South Africa’s four top tourist destinations and a collection of its lesser-known gems.  The site is a culmination of Street View imagery with video, photos and stories from the trail, offering viewers unique perspectives.