 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence is an organizing strategy by individuals and organizations around the world to call for the prevention and elimination of violence against women and girls. It originated in 1991 and was coordinated by the Center for Women’s Global Leadership. The campaign theme this year is “Leave No One Behind: Ending Violence against Women and Girls” and it aims to raise awareness of the negative impact that violence and abuse have on women and children. 2017 saw a larger public awareness of gender-based violence sparking viral campaigns such as #metoo and #menaretrash. Sexual harassment was specifically highlighted in America with many actors and actresses speaking openly about their experiences of sexual harassment by rich and powerful men in the media and entertainment industries.  Here’s what you need to know about this year’s 16 Days of Activism: According to the recent stats released by the South African Police Service, the police recorded a total of 39,828 rapes in 2016/17, down from 41,503 in 2015/16. An average of 109.1 rapes were recorded each day. The rape rate decreased from 75.5 to 71.3 per 100,000 people. The Eastern Cape had the highest rape rate at 105.3 per 100,000 people. The Institute for Security Studies warns that “the rape statistics recorded by the police cannot be taken as an accurate measure of either the extent or trend of this crime”.   Abuse constitutes any behaviour that causes fear, bodily harm and a person to do things against their will. Forms of abuse include child abuse, rape, emotional abuse, physical abuse, sexual harassment and financial abuse.  South Africa’s legal definition of rape is very broad. It includes the oral, anal or vaginal penetration of a person (male or female) with a genital organ, anal or vaginal penetration with any object and the penetration of a person’s mouth with the genital organs of an animal. Parliament has passed laws to protect the rights of individuals against abuse. These laws include: The role of Parliament includes the promotion of human dignity, equality, non-racialism, non-sexism and the supremacy of the Constitution. Parliament upholds citizens’ human rights and oversees the implementation of constitutional imperatives. This includes, but is not limited to, passing of legislation that prevents or prohibits unfair discrimination on people based on race and gender.   Don’t be a victim of gender-based violence and abuse, know your rights, and break the cycle and silence. Report cases of abuse by contacting the following organisations: 