MBOMBELA – With faecal coliforms bacterial indicators testing more then 12 100 colony-forming units (cfu) per100 millilitres in a water sample from the wetland area between Laerskool Laeveld and Delta and Tinktinkie streets, residents of the area have reason to be concerned.
A small dam created in the wetland area a year or two ago has been green for a long time and gives off a bad odour.
After contacting Sembcorp Silulumanzi on numerous occasions, a sample of the dam water tested by Labserve Analytical Services last week showed alarming results. The faecal coliforms indicator exceeded the available testing parameters, those of chemical oxygen demand (COD) tested 600 milligrammes per litre and those for ammonium as nitrogen 21,6 milligrammes per litre. The waste water limit values applicable, as published in the Government Gazette of September 2013, prescribe the respective limits as 1 000 cfu per 100 millilitres, 75 and 6 milligrammes per litre.
Faecal coliforms are the most common bacterial indicators of faecal pollution and are used to evaluate the quality of wastewater effluents. The presence of Escherichia coli confirms the presence of faecal pollution such as in raw sewerage.
A high concentration of faecal coliforms can be detrimental to human health when ingested. It can cause gastrointestinal diseases such as gastroenteritis, salmonellosis, dysentery, cholera and typhoid fever.
The exceeded limits of COD, a measure of the oxygen equivalent of organic matter in the water, can cause damage to equipment and structures or interfere with natural processes. Elevated concentrations of ammonia can compromise the disinfection of water and give rise to nitrate formation, which may result in taste and odour problems.
On November 2 a site inspection was done by Sembcorp Silulumanzi and on Wednesday technical services manager Arthur Douglass indicated that they have cleared upstream lines possibly contributing to the pollution of the dam. Due to vegetation overgrow in the wetland area debushing had to be done to gain access and inspect those sewer lines. Two blockages were found and repaired.
According to him blockages were due to human behaviour and not damaged lines. He alleged that residents dumped newspapers, construction materials and non-degradable products in the sewers, since foreign objects like beer bottles were removed. “We appeal to communities to refrain from such practices as it leads to blockages like this,” he urged.
In order to clear the stagnant water, they undertook to spray bio-friendly chemicals on it. This could only be done on Wednesday, as additional equipment first had to be obtained.
Officials of Sembcorp Silulumanzi would monitor the application and effectiveness of the treatment and do the necessary clean-up. He indicated that the process might take some time, but said they were committed to resolve the situation.
According to a resident “some stuff” was sprayed on the dam on Wednesday morning. Since workers at the company also announced a strike that same day, at the time of going to press it was unknown how that would affect the process.