 MBOMBELA – Two fire and rescue vehicles that should be operational in KaNyamazane are currently not in service, leaving emergency services without the necessary resources to attend to emergencies in the area. According to a source, who requested to remain anonymous for professional reasons, the fire engine has been out of service for more than six months, placing unnecessary strain on the overall firefighting capacity of Mbombela Fire and Rescue Services as the festive season draws nearer. Also read: Fire season 2017: What you need to know Municipal spokesman Joseph Ngala said that the reasons for the fire engine and rescue vehicle – the latter has been out of service for four months – not being in use is due to necessary parts not being available in South Africa. “The information we have from the service provider is that parts had to be ordered from abroad and the vehicles will be fixed. The latest information in this regard is that the parts are in the country waiting for the load to be cleared by customs officials, after which the parts will be received and the vehicles repaired,” said Ngala. Also read: Adhere to fire safety rules, warn firefighters Disputing the claim that Mbombela Fire and Rescue Services are currently facing strain due to having two less vehicles available to attend emergency situations, Ngala said that all services have been continuing as normal at the KaNyamazane Fire Station. “The fire station has been given a tanker that carries 9000 litres of water; much bigger than the one currently out of commission,” he said. The source, however, insists that the members of the Mbombela Fire and Rescue Services are unable to perform their duties as efficiently as they should due to the shortage of vehicles. Also read: Sappi ready to fight fire with fire The source added that due to the strain on the current fleet, more vehicles have rapidly been falling into disrepair. “Most of the time things are not repaired immediately, leading to a general degradation of the fleet and equipment,” the source said. However, according to Ngala, the strain on the current fleet is being mitigated by redeploying vehicles and equipment and having the fire stations work collaboratively in addressing emergency situations. “All three fire stations of the city serve a back-up in case a major incident occurs in one of the areas of its jurisdiction,” he said. Also read: Accusations follow last week’s flames