 MBOMBELA – The executive committee of Huis Betlehem is overjoyed at the generous donation of R91 660 which was made by Dulux Nelspruit on Friday. “I have been organising charity golf days for two years and the amount raised for Huis Betlehem is by far the most money that we have been able to gather for an organisation thus far,” Topham said. Drawing on sponsors from across the Lowveld, the golf day featured 40 players and was an opportunity for businesses in the area to band together for a good cause while playing 10 four-ball rounds. Also read: Company visits children’s homes “We had a couple of games at some of the holes during which participants pledged money to the charity, as well as an auction following the golf,” Topham explained. He added that as an internationally recognised brand, Dulux and specifically Dulux South Africa felt strongly about ploughing back into the communities on which it relies for business. “It cannot only be about doing business and making money, we need to give back to the communities in which we operate,” he said. Chairman of Huis Betlehem, Christo Bouwer said he was elated at receiving the donation which will make a massive difference in the daily operations of the home, which functions as a safe haven for children who were removed from their parents because of trauma or conflict in the family. Also read: Children get their own set of wheels “It’s one of the largest contributions we have received this year. We went through a tough time earlier in the year, but at the moment we are taking a cautious breath and continuing our work with a little more ease,” he said. Bouwer said that the home, based in White River, was opened in 2000 and is on a healthy financial foot in part due to the generous contribution from Dulux and the various sponsors which attended the golf day. “Dulux really made a massive contribution to our ability to continue our work at Huis Betlehem,” Bouwer stated. “I want to thank Eddie Topham from Dulux SA and Herman Schoonraad and Burrie Smit, as well as Kenneth Markoosen from Dulux Nelspruit for making the event happen and deciding to donate the money to Huis Betlehem,”
he said. Also read: Nege redes om Huis Betlehem te help