 MBOMBELA – Ronnie Nemukula’s “school fees” are paying off. The years he spent acquiring business skills, over and above the electrical engineering diploma he obtained at technical college, helped propel his company, Ronem Maintenance Solutions, to the top-five finalists of the Tsogo Sun Entrepreneur of the Year awards for 2017. When the winner was recently announced, it was not Ronem, but for the 36-year-old Nemukula, it was “perfect”. Nemukula has been in business for 14 years. He started out at Emperor’s Palace, but quickly attained skills beyond electrical components. “The environment allowed me to expand and gather critical knowledge in other areas,” he explained. Nemukula eventually joined Emnotweni Casino, later became a facilities manager at Riverside Mall and is a regional property manager for Broll Property Group. He registered Ronem a year ago. It is a one-stop company for the construction, repair and maintenance of buildings. Also see: Chess opens doors to problem-solving The dream was born in 2005, when a street vendor told him how she, with no education, paid for her two sons’ law and medical studies by selling vetkoek on a Johannesburg road. “It switched me on. She, with no education, had an impact on what was going to happen in the future.” He spent the next 12 years learning. “I decided to acquire all the skills I needed. The technical part was there, but I needed additional skills, such as financial management and human resources.” His experience allowed him a relatively easy entrance into the market. “I came in as a known brand. People knew who ‘Ronnie’ was. I just had to convert the personal brand into a business one.” Ronem is a family business. His wife, Tshifhiwa, does the books, and his brother, Hulisani, is the company’s procurement manager. There are also three full-time employees and 21 temporary construction workers. Nemukula favours graduates from FET colleges as they have the latest knowledge. “But I hire people on the basis of a willingness to learn above the skills they already have. The greatest challenge for all entrepreneurs is to transfer your vision to employees, so that customers receive the same top quality from each of them,” he added. He already uses two former employees as contractors. “We teach them to be bosses themselves. Then you impact the employment rate. That is how you extend your hand further than you can reach.” Also read: Entrepreneur is recognised for her innovative energy solution The Entrepreneur of the Year programme helped develop them a lot, providing financial advisers, a life coach and making them more aware of structures, systems and marketing strategies. It also instilled a belief in them that they can succeed and helped to change their mentality. “You are not a small businessman, or a big businessman. You are just a businessman. To reach the top five in the competition, that recognition made me feel 10 feet taller. “The general public, however, is still learning to maintain its property, and not wait for something to break before doing something about it. People expect the property to stay the same. You never see your roof until it starts to leak.” It is hard work. On average Nemukula keeps 11-hour days. And when he is not working, he is thinking about how Ronem can improve.  “Ronem Maintenance Solutions will not deem itself successful until it is the service provider of choice based on our high-quality workmanship. Then we will have what money cannot buy: reputation,” he concluded.