 MBOMBELA – “May God be with both of our families in this time of need.” This was the message sent back after a family forgave a man accused of killing a woman in a hit-and-run. Philip Watkins (50) is accused of killing Johanica Orton (34). His sister, Ingrid Longden-Thurgood, responded to Carina Janse van Rensburg’s (Johanica’s sister) testimony. READ MORE HERE: Tears of forgiveness flow in police holding cells Carina spoke from the heart during the memorial service at Church Unlimited last Friday, how she had come face to face with Watkins and forgave him. Johanica was killed on October 28. Watkins was arrested later that day. He appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on charges of culpable homicide, leaving the scene of an accident and obstruction of justice. Philip Watkins. Ingrid and her husband, Howard, passed on a message of condolence to Johanica’s family. “It has been a very difficult time for us and especially for you. I thank you from the bottom of my heart for the message I have just read and listened to, about your visit to my brother.” Ingrid said they wanted to express their deepest sympathy, as they had not been quite sure how to approach the matter with Johanica’s family. “We are praying every day for your family and for Philip, who is struggling to come to terms with what has happened. ALSO READ : Forgiveness is important says Mienke’s dad, Ryno “Visiting Philip and seeing him as a broken man and offering him some comfort in his darkest hours was a very brave thing to do. Forgiveness is hard to give and the family do appreciate this. “The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul, He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for His name’s sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for Thou art with me, Psalm 23. “Our family has suffered tragedy before. My youngest brother lost his daughter to cancer at the age of six. Your family truly needed to know that our hearts go out to your family at this time of sorrow.” Ingrid added that words seemed inadequate to express the sadness their family felt about the tragedy.