 MBOMBELA – Two brothers were found guilty of brutally decapitating a woman and burying her in a shallow grave. Velaphi and Maphevu Nkosi appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday on charges of the kidnapping and murder of Zodwa Gumede (23). Magistrate Sheila Msibi said the incident occurred on March 26, 2011 in Pienaar. Maphevu was Zodwa’s ex-boyfriend. “On the night in question, the victim’s boyfriend at the time, said they had gone to a tavern and were drinking when Maphevu approached them. After an argument, he grabbed her and drove away.” Msibi said due to the boyfriend being intoxicated that night, she had too little evidence to convict the brothers of kidnapping. ALSO READ: Wife gets 12 years behind bars for conspiracy to murder her husband “It is unclear if she left with him voluntarily or against her will as the witness was intoxicated at the time and there were no other witnesses.” Maphevu in his statement said he had taken Zodwa to his house. They had not argued. He said the next morning when he left to go to the Eastern Cape, she was still alive and he did not know what happened to her afterwards. Msibi struck this as inadmissible as the post-mortem indicated that Zodwa had died about 30 minutes after midnight on the night in question. “The cause of death was blunt force to the neck. The head was totally separated from her body. I believe there was no way you had a friendly talk after finding her with another man. You fought with her and you killed her.” Upon Zodwa’s disappearance, her cousin Elliot Gumede, was asked by her mother to find out what had happened to her. Elliot said he could see the police were not willing to follow up on any more leads as they had received so many false ones. “A week after she vanished, I found out Maphevu was arrested and his brother might have some information about what happened to her.” Elliot, accompanied by police, went to Maphevu’s house where they found his brother, Velaphi. “I asked him where Zodwa was and he immediately told me he will show me where she is as long as he can be a state witness.” ALSO READ: Boyfriends nabbed for women’s brutal murders Velaphi took them to a bushy area not far from their house. “I was shocked that he admitted to knowing where her body was and took us there. The same area they built Emoyeni Mall on.” Next to a river was a pile of stones. Velaphi pointed it out and the police discovered her decomposing body buried underneath the stones in a shallow grave with a sheet over it. “I identified her for the police, I could see her head was off her body and parts of her body were missing. I could see her ears were missing.” Msibi said at the time the police were only investigating a kidnapping case, and would never have discovered the body without the assistance of Velaphi, therefore he must have assisted his brother in getting rid of the body. Msibi postponed the matter for sentencing until December 1. Both accused are in custody.