 MBOMBELA – For Mourice Mnguni (28), a shop attendant at Total Steiltes, every day is a good day to make a difference in someone’s life. On Saturday, he was going about his usual duties, serving people in the shop at the filling station, when a woman forgot R600 on the counter after withdrawing cash from the ATM outside. “I saw the money and thought that it would be best if I kept it safe for the woman, so I put it aside hoping that she would come to collect it later,” said Mnguni who lives in Pienaar. Also read: Tough men on the razor’s edge for children’s library He has been working at Total Steiltes for the past four years and says people regularly forget personal items at the counter when they pop in for a quick purchase. “The woman came back later that day after my shift had ended, but luckily I was still at work so I was able to meet with her and return the money,” he said, adding that although this was not the first time he had to keep money safe for someone, it was the first time the incident was posted on Facebook. “I am very happy to know that people are not only focusing on the negative and feel the need to let others know about good deeds others do for them. It’s the power of media,” said Mnguni, who has a passion for helping others and is currently saving money and working on a business plan to open a gym in Pienaar. Also read: Gifts of joy and love given and received Living with his grandmother and three younger siblings, he said he has always been driven to set a good example to the people around him and to help where he can. To him it is not only about talking about doing good things, but practising what you preach. “It’s about being able to show people that anyone can be trustworthy and that aligns with the ideals of the business here, because my manager always encourages us to act professionally.” Also read: Sun rises on local women To Mnguni the responsibility of making South Africa a better place for all its citizens starts with the individual. “I think that if everyone can work to take responsibility for themselves and their actions, we as South Africans can each lead by example and work together to make the country a great place to live in,” he said.