Lowvelder readers stand a chance to win a Steers voucher to the value of R500. All you have to do is look for your hidden Old Joe in today’s printed edition, and if yours has a Lowveld Media stamp on it, you could be a winner! Don’t forget to bring along your Old Joe 90 map to prove that you are participating in the competition.  Steers is South Africa’s leading burger brand and has served South Africans it’s legendary 100% pure beef, flame-grilled burgers and freshly cut chips for almost 50 years. Steers has won the Leisure Options Award for the Best Burger for the 18 years running, and Best Chips for 14 years running.  Steers’ success is due in part to its extensive network of over 525 local restaurants, its growing African footprint of 36 restaurants. We cater for all our customers and that is why we have the Halaal menu.  Steers restaurants are known for their warm friendly atmosphere, great service and top-quality food. We have been around for almost half a century, so we know what South Africans want. Our innovative ideas and commitment to meeting our customers’ changing needs have made us leaders in the quick service industry. In as much as we offer the best meals at an affordable price, we also play our part in the community through sponsoring varsity sports, and cricket. Steers is a partner of Let’s Play, an initiative that challenges South African schools to prove their fitness. Let’s Play aims to encourage physical education in schools and make children more passionate about sport.  This initiative resulted from a partnership between Supersport, the Department of Basic Education, Sport and Recreation, the Physical Education Institute of South Africa, UNICEF and Active Education and we’re honoured to be a part of the team. We have also established campaigns in support of the social development of society through campaigns such as Shout.  Showing that nothing beats the Phanda meal special, visit the nearest Steers Restaurant and get your #Panda Meal for only R35.90.  Visit Steers at Nelspruit Crossing, or get in touch with them on 013 752 8150 or 013 752 8165