 MBOMBELA – Eskom is requesting a 19,9 per cent increase in tariffs for 2018/19. Also read: City of Mbombela engages in talks with Eskom The power utility has been rocked by controversy. Parliament is conducting an inquiry into allegations of state capture at the parastatal. It has also emerged that Eskom’s liquidity reserves are likely to stand at only R1,2 billion at the end of the month, as opposed to the targeted R20 billion. Also read: City of Mbombela Local Municipality promises no electricity interruptions this festive season The hearing gave members of the public the opportunity to provide their opinions with regard to whether Eskom should be allowed the increase.
Eskom spokesman Khulu Phasiwe indicated that the increase would be put to good use. “Out of this amount, R35 billion is reserved for purchase of energy from renewable energy projects or IPPs. There is also an amount of about R8 million which is a tax or a levy called the ‘environmental levy’. This money is collected by us on behalf of the National Treasury.” Regarding the use of the rest of the money Phasiwe said, “The other amounts are basically for our operational requirements, because we still have to operate as a business.” Captain Gwilym Rees spoke on behalf of the Sabie Chamber of Commerce. According to Rees, the organisation was not in favour of allowing Eskom the 19,9 per cent tariff increase. “Eskom has not demonstrated sound management. Until such time when Eskom can demonstrate fully accountable management and good governance of taxpayers’ and consumers’ money, they do not deserve the increase.” Also read: Laeveld se besigheid druk munisipaliteit om sake agtermekaar te kry. Xolani Mbanga of the Energy Intensive Users Group echoed these sentiments. Phasiwe indicated that such views were completely justifiable.
“The law allows everyone to express their views.” Xolani Mbanga. A representative from KLCBT was also in attendance. This representative presented six points in opposition to this increase: The regulator is expected to make its final decision around December 7. KLCBT information provided by KLCBT