 WHITE RIVER – On Saturday, October 28, Franci du Toit, the curator of the art collection that will be displayed in the High Court, opened an art exhibition, at the White River Art Gallery at Casterbridge. It runs until Monday, October 20.  The art on display are the works of Du Toit, Ayanda Nkosi, Linda Shongwe, Ndwandwe and Winston Thekiso. Du Toit is also the creative consultant of Ulusaba Lodge, Sir Richard Branson’s private game lodge in Sabi Sands, and was responsible for the interior design during the recent renovations at the lodge. Linda Shongwe with one of his art works. Jacques Terblanche, principal architect of the Mpumalanga High Court and the artists Nkosi,Shongwe and Thekiso also attended the official opening. Du Toit said it was important to her to expose these talented young artists.: “I would like to see that the artists I’ve discovered in the last year while I was working on this project, are provided a further platform. The public should experience their amazing talent in order for them to continue with their art.” A common thread in the works that will be on display in the High Court, is South Africa’s roots: Du Toit’s photographic art for this project was inspired largely by the rock art of the San people.  Du Toit says that her photographs of the landscape art of Nukain Mabuza usually get a lot of attention. Mabuza became known for the rocks he painted in the Barberton area between 1960 and 1980. Guests enjoy the art works on display. For Du Toit, her photographic art is a great way to preserve his art, which is unfortunately exposed to the elements. “Fading Away” and “Preserved” are just two of the artworks on display. Du Toit said: “The first art form in South Africa was the rock art of the San people and there will be a major representation of their work at the court. I tried to contemporise it by placing it on different mediums: art paper, metal and Perspex.”. The various styles and techniques of the five artists whose works form part of the Art in our Landscape create a wonderful anticipation of what will be seen. Enquiries: Marlize Meyer on 083-675-8833.