 If you are reading this, you have survived the end of the world a number of times. Those born in the 60’s were set to die 56 times between then and now. The eldest Millennials have survived 47 would-be-apocalypses. Hoaxes have had us on our toes for centuries. If you have a beard, you may have popped in at McDonalds for a free ice cream today. You left empty handed.   The image on the left – a hoax – circulated online recently. It seems to have been adapted from the image on the right by adding the McDonalds logo. Over the past few weeks, a number of hoaxes have been circulating via social media. One voice note I received was recorded by someone with a deep, raspy voice. It resembled that of Scar from The Lion King. You get the idea.  It predicted that the white population would be eradicated by thugs wielding pangas on November 2. It is now a week later. Running late, maybe? Fake ‘police warnings’ also do the rounds from time to time. “The SAPS advises South Africans to never travel without oven cleaner. This is more effective than pepper spray. It blinds your attacker,” one stated. Con men posing as business representatives often use e-mails to trick victims into supplying them with their personal – and, more specifically, bank account details. But how does one distinguish between a fraudster’s message and the real thing?  Trust me. Ukml44@gmail.com is not a millionaire philanthropist. He is scamming you. If you’ve never played the UK Mobile Lottery, you should realise that you could not have won it. So the e-mail or SMS states that the author is affiliated with a well-known brand. Affiliations with banks and insurance companies are often alleged. Do not reply to the e-mail unless you have contacted the institution that seems to be involved. Once that entity has confirmed the veracity of the e-mail or SMS’s content, react thereto. Google everyone. Let this be your rule of thumb. Prospective employees, Tinder dates, prospective service deliverers and business associates. If they have been involved in unsavoury activities, Google may know about it. Check out these handy tips.  