 MBOMBELA- On October 26, Unigrad college hosted its annual exhibition night. The event gave first- and second-year graphic design students the opportunity to showcase their work to parents,community members and companies in the industry. A senior lecturer at Unigrad, Lené Vosloo, spoke about the lucrative opportunities which the exhibit gives students: “During the exhibition potential employers get the opportunity to see the students’ portfolios on display and to interact with them on a much more personal level. In the past, this has led to some final-year students receiving job offers.” Pieter Nel, the career adviser at Unigrad College, suggested that students were not the only ones to benefit from the exhibition. According to Nel, the event also gave the public and industry the chance to forge possible working relationships. Also read: New event introduced to cater for Mbombela’s cultural community First-year student Antonio Markgraaff and second-year student Marthie van Zyl were simultaneously nervous and excited to present their work. Also read: Superiority reigns at this art exhibition Van Zyl expressed gratitude to the college for the dedication which it showed towards their students.:”The staff at Unigrad College have helped me to grow and their commitment to us as students is evident in the support they give us during our studies.” Well-known architect, Louis Jonker was impressed with the standard of work produced while Gugu Mashigo talked excitedly about local talent being groomed in the Lowveld. “You no longer have to look for graduates in Gauteng or the Cape, they are right here,” she said. Unigrad principal Riaan Loubser said of his lecturers, “Knowing them and their ability to get the best out of our students, I’m very excited about the future of these amazing students.” Lené Vosloo ,Amanda Espag Applications and registration for 2018 are open. Enquiries: Pieter on 013-755-3503 or email info@unigradcollege.co.za. You can also visit the campus at 34 Ferreira Street,Mbombela or view courses at www.unigradcollege.co.za. Information provided by Unigrad college.