 MBOMBELA – MEC for Community Safety, Security and Liason for Mpumalanga, Pat Ngomane, has repeated his plea to the general public to use the road with greater caution in order to save lives. The request follows in the wake of three major crashes which occurred on different routes in the province over the weekend. Also read: BREAKING NEWS : Dramatic rescue after Crossing accident Ngomane said, “With increased vigilance on the part of motorists, some of the crashes are avoidable. Most of the crashes are due to human error and the failure to obey traffic rules.” The MEC has since given his condolences to the families who have suffered the loss of loved ones. Also read: BREAKING NEWS: One person trapped and two dead in accident The first accident happened on Saturday morning, November 11 at about 01:50. The accident happened on the R536 between Hazyview and Kruger Gate near Hoxanne. It occurred when a sedan lost control and hit a tree. All three men who were in the vehicle died on the scene. It emerged that the driver of the vehicle was a traffic officer of the Bushbuckridge Local Municipality. The accident at Paardeplaats. The second accident happened on Sunday November 12 at about 15:00 on the N4 at Paardeplaats near Belfast. The incident was a side-swipe collision involving five people in a Mercedes-Benz and sedan and two in a Kia sedan. The Mercedes was driving from Belfast towards Middelburg while the Kia was going the opposite direction. All the passengers were killed on impact. The third accident on the same road involved four vehicles and a minibus taxi. This resulted in the death of one person and left three seriously injured and a further 10 with minor injuries. The three have been taken to hospital. Also read: N4 blocked as traffic accident kills three MEC Ngomane said this is an indication that plans for the festive season need to be intensified to curb road crashes. “We need to start now and put in place intensive strategies as the festive season is approaching and this period is usually characterised by high volumes of traffic and increased road crashes. We will also not tolerate any waywardness on the part of motorists as traffic officers will be deployed on all major routes.” Information provided by the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liason.    