 MBOMBELA – Magda Coetzer’s (41) cancer was terminal. The best a new, effective drug might have done was to prolong her life. But this was not to be, as it took more than year for her to obtain it. She believed that the drug, Erivedge would give her a fighting chance, she told Lowvelder a week before she died on Wednesday morning. Magda had an aggressive cancer. Her skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma (BCC), had metastasised to her lungs in February 2015.  Photo: Hesléé OelofseTo treat this kind of cancer, removal or radiation is recommended, neither of which are particularly effective on an organ such as the lung, her husband Gert explained. The newspaper reported last week how he worked tirelessly to have Erivedge, the only drug registered for the extremely rare condition, registered in South Africa. Read more: Man se veggees gee vrou ‘n kans op lewe Discovery Health had refused to pay for the medication, based on a Section 21 application whereby unregistered drugs may be imported for a specific patient’s use. After a long battle, the drug was at last approved and Magda was able to take the first pill of the six-month treatment last Thursday.     Unfortunately, it was too late. She had to be heavily sedated on Monday, and on Tuesday induced into a medical coma. “She is not going to wake up again,” Gert told Lowvelder at the time. She died in hospital the following morning. Gert is upset at the delay in getting his wife the medication. They had requested it in July last year, but Discovery insisted that it had to be registered. Yet, when the registrations were complete, Discovery said it needed another three to six months before it could pay for it. When Gert queried why payment had not been approved, Discovery told him it might have been faster had it been a Section 21 application, he said. His frustration became immense, but he kept fighting for Magda. Photo: Hesléé Oelofse In September her oncologist, Dr Henri Neethling, wrote a letter to Discovery, indicating how urgent the matter was. When Magda got really sick on November 5, Gert approached the media. Days later Discovery agreed to pay. Gert said they would have had to make a co-payment of approximately R40 000 on the total R600 000. Research is limited, as it is a rare condition, but trial data demonstrates the efficacy of Erivedge in metastasised BCC. In the meantime, Discovery authorised chemotherapy, which is not a registered treatment for BCC. Photo: Hesléé Oelofse Khensani Mthombeni, speaking for Discovery Health, said Erivedge was only registered in South Africa on October 5. “The Discovery Health Medical Scheme rules exclude cover for unregistered medications, except in particular circumstances where there is strong clinical evidence that the medication is highly effective and cost-effective. “Based on our review of the medication while it was still unregistered, the rules for funding were not met and hence the initial request for this medication was declined in accordance with the scheme’s rules. “As soon as the product was formally registered, we initiated a review of the funding guidelines and also discussions with the SA Oncology Consortium (SAOC), the leading oncology expert body in the country, which advises us on the funding of oncology medications. “We have just completed these internal reviews and discussions with the SAOC, and we can confirm that as from January 1 this medication will now be funded in full from the oncology benefit of Discovery Health Medical Scheme,” said Mthombeni. Discovery did not explain why it approved and paid for chemotherapy for her BCC. Also see: Noodsaaklike middel vir skaars kanker land in SA  Like Gert, Magda fought till the end. “You can throw your tantrum, but what will it help?” she had told Lowvelder. “I have things to live for.” Her dragon tatoos were fitting of her strong character. Gert explained that she got the first one on her shoulder because she loved fantasy. “Afterwards she found out that she had been born in the year of the dragon, according to the Chinese calendar. She got another on her forearm. She said they were her spirit animals, and her guardian angels.” She is survived by their two daughters, Christien (21) and Lashanna (17). A memorial service will be held for her in the chapel at the crematorium on Monday.