This top performing Mpumalanga School for Science and Commerce took note of the following:  Agricultural science is a broad multidisciplinary field of biology that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences that are used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. Veterinary science, but not animal science, is often excluded from the definition.  Agriculture sciences seek to feed the world’s population while preventing biosafety problems that may affect human health and the environment. This requires promoting good management of natural resources and respect for the environment, and increasing concern for the psychological wellbeing of all concerned in the food production and consumption system. Economic, environmental and social aspects of agriculture sciences are subjects of ongoing debate. Recent crises such as avian influenza (bird flu), foot-and-mouth disease, mad cow disease and issues such as the use of genetically modified organisms illustrate the complexity and importance of this debate.  Viticulture (Grape growing and wine making)
Equine Studies (Horses)
Horticulture (Flowers)
Veterinary Sciences
Forestry
Agro–Technology
Animal Production
Agricultural Management
Game Ranch Management
Agricultural Communications
Agricultural Economics
Agricultural Engineering (Food Engineering, Bioprocessing Engineering)
Agronomy Universities that offer the above degree programs are Stellenbosch University, University of Mpumalanga, University of Cape Town, University of Limpopo, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, University of the Free State and most of the Universities of Technology.  If your child is naturally drawn to any of the above fields of study, then Mathews Phosa College could offer them a strong foundation to explore and develop their interest in an Agricultural Sciences career.  For more information on the Mathews Phosa College curriculum, please contact them on 013 733 3224 or 073 026 1894. You can also send the College an email, visit their website or like their Facebook page for the latest information and happenings. 