 To remember soldiers who have died in the line of duty, Remembrance Day (also known as Poppy Day) will be observed in the Lowveld this weekend. It marks almost a century since the end of the First World War. Veteran soldiers from across the globe remember the terrible hardships of war and its affects every year on this day. The armistice was officially declared at the 11th hour on the 11th day of the 11th month 1918 in accordance with the treaty signed by representatives from Germany and the Entente between 05:12 and 05:20 that morning. On Saturday morning, Poppy Day will be honoured with a special parade at the cenotaph next to the town hall in De Villiers Street in Barberton. The preceding will promptly start at 11:00. This will be followed by a commemoration at Legogote Shellhole in Russel Street, Mbombela at 20:00, which will start with a shadow parade. Next on the agenda will be an opening with scripture and prayer. Homage will be paid by the Stevenson-Hamilton Pipe Band. The evening will be concluded with a flag hoisting, wreath-laying ceremony and a social gathering. On Sunday at 11:00 a remembrance service and parade will be held at Mpumalanga Shellhole in White River, situated on the corner of Danie Joubert and Chief Mgiyeni Khumalo streets. It commence with a bugler playing “The Last Post” followed by a minute of silence. After the flag is hoisted, a flypast will be done during the performance by the Stevenson Hamilton Pipe Band. The day will be concluded with a wreath-laying ceremony followed by refreshments. This day is symbolised by the wearing of a bright red poppy which represents not just the fallen, but also serves as a reminder of the horror of war and the terrible affects it often has on the innocents. The poppy was derived from the moving poem by John McCrae entitled “In Flanders Field”. Poppies bloomed across some of the worst battlefields of Flanders, in Belgium, during World War I and their brilliant red colour forms an appropriate symbol for the blood spilled during the war.   Lowveld Nomads drive for charity