 Lindokuhle Lloyd Zwane, Busisiwe Mboshane and Phindile Muila will receive free one-year training in tourism. The one-year tourism course, designed, operated and run by industry leaders, will enable them to become multiskilled and employable. Alive in Tourism even assists with job applications after the completion of the course. It combines three vital segments in the learning process: theory, practical training and work experience, all of which are assessed by accredited assessors and moderators. “At Alive in Tourism we believe in knowledge that is a combination of experience and reflection upon experience,” said Conrad van Eyssen, Managing Director at Kwa Madwala Private Game Reserve. “It is the familiarity with a subject or object, including information, facts, descriptions and skills, acquired through experience and education. At Alive in Tourism we see knowledge as both the theoretical and practical understanding of the tourism industry.  “We know that the single most important ‘qualification’ topping the list, and the one which quality industry leaders are looking for, is experience. Training at Alive in Tourism can be offered in this format because of the partnership between Kwa Madwala partnership and Alive.” This unique opportunity offers that, as well as comprehensive training in a pristine environment in a fully operational multi-segmented, working tourism model. The training is CATHSSETA-accredited and covers tourist guiding in nature and culture as well as hospitality services. Alive has more than 25 years of experience, recognition and status as a leading provider of quality education and are known for a proud record of turning out the highest-calibre graduates. What sets them apart is their accreditation, as well as the foundational platform, practical tourism experience and industry-driven skills it offers.  The knowledge gained can be applied to any tourism-related industry, and are sure to brighten the future of not only the three lucky winners, but all their other students too. Meals and accommodation are included in the prize (for the winners) and fees (for other students), lectures and learning aids. For more information on Alive In Tourism Training Centre and the courses they offer, visit them online at www.alivetraining.co.za, or call 013-790-4214 or 082-779-2153, Mondays to Fridays from 08:00 to 15:00 or email info@alivetraining.co.za.