 South Africa’s most well-known boxing legend Brian Mitchell might no longer be throwing punches in the ring, but he continues to keep South Africans awed with his public appearances as corporate motivational speaker and master of ceremonies. “I have always tried to be a role model for the sportsmen and -women as well as the children of South Africa,” says Mitchell of his ongoing efforts to motivate and inspire South Africans from all walks of life. Having retired from boxing more than 20 years ago, Mitchell says that he feels fortunate to have stepped away from the sport at the right time, giving him the ability and resources to share his life story and motivate young sportspeople and the South African business community. Also read: Boxing champ makes Mbombela his home Brian Mitchell. Photo: supplied “From early on I had a drive to help those around me, so philanthropy really has become a huge part of my life as I greatly enjoy assisting charities and working as a motivational speaker and master of ceremonies at a range of events,” he says. To Mitchell it is wonderful to live in what he describes as a “sporting-mad country”. He feels that sport and his message of overcoming the challenges he faced as a young boxer is a very apt way of conveying a message of hope and encouragement to his audiences. Also read: Mbenge set for boxing medal on Friday He recently also starred in the debut of a play, The Road Warrior, based on his life. Holder of both the World Boxing Association and International Boxing Federations’ World Junior Lightweight titles, Mitchell’s remarkable story makes for a riveting rags-to-riches story with Mitchell himself starring in the one-man show. He is available as master of ceremonies, auctioneer and motivational speaker for all corporate events and golf days. “I would encourage anyone who is looking to host a corporate event to have me act as MC or share my advice on how to achieve your goals,” he said. Also read: Former champ aims to revive boxing era Brian Mitchell. Photo: supplied “I think the message I share with audiences is universal, and added to that I share my love and passion for this country. I still love South Africa you know,” said Mitchell. Mitchell welcomes anyone interested in making use of his service to contact him on mitchellbrian993@gmail.com.