 According to Doctor Donnie Engelbrecht from the Van Wijk street animal hospital, you should encourage  your dog, when it is still a puppy, to socialize with other dogs, animals and humans.  You should also expose said puppy to different environments.  In doing so, you will be able to teach your puppy how to be confident and independent and how to be at ease in any surroundings and around other people. By teaching your puppy these things you will be able to ensure that they do not become fearful animals with unpredictable personalities in the future. In every situation, your behaviour towards your dog should always be the same. By being consistent, you will be able to show to your dog that you can be trusted and that you are reliable. This will increase the chances of your dog being obedient and well behaved. Also read: Dogs and cats up for adoption at the Nelspruit SPCA Dr Engelbrecht suggests that you should always be gentle and understanding when interacting with your dog and that you should approach your dog without any erratic movements or sudden changes in body language. In doing so, you will be able to be consistent thereby increasing your chances of earning the respect and obedience of your dog. You need to ensure that your dog knows who the boss is. From a young age, they need to know what constitutes acceptable and non acceptable forms of behaviour. In order to teach them this, you should reward your dog with attentions and treats when they display good behavior. When they behave badly, discipline them appropriately at the time so that they can associate the behaviour with the consequence. This will deter them from behaving in the same manner in the future. According to Dr Engelbrecht,it is advisable to teach your dog a few simple commands such as “no!”, “come”, “sit” and “stay”. Rewards work well when it comes to teaching your dog how to appropriately respond to commands. Also read: Dogs excel at Canine Good Citizen grading By teaching your dog basic commands from an early age they will find it easier to follow more complex commands when they are older.  It will also be easier to handle your dog if they can follow commands. There is also the chance that people will more readily acknowledge that your dog is well behaved if they can see that they understand commands. Getting the right food for your dog is very important. Large, medium, small and toy breeds have different nutritional needs in terms of the size of the pellet and its composition.  Vaccinations are also very important for the prevention of infectious diseases like Parvo and Rabies distemper. A healthy pet is a happy pet, if your pet is well cared for and happy they will be more willing to be obedient. Information provide by Doctor Donnie Engelbrecht from Van Wijk Street Animal Hospital.