 MBOMBELA – At least two women were brutally murdered this week, allegedly by their boyfriends. Jose Fernando, a Mozambican citizen, appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court yesterday. It is alleged that he killed his girlfriend in the room he was renting in Ehmke Street, on Tuesday. Nelspruit police spokesman, Capt Dawie Pretorius said police could not name the victim at the time of going to press as her next of kin had not been notified. Her post-mortem was conducted yesterday.  Her body was discovered by police on Tuesday afternoon after a taxi driver who used to take her to work and back noticed that she did not show up for her usual lift. Mpumalanga police spokesman, Col Mtsholi Bhembe said the victim had been living with the accused. READ MORE HERE: UPDATE: Woman brutally murdered* in Ehmke street “The murder took place in the back room, which the accused rented.” Fernando allegedly used a blunt object to hit the victim on the head. Afterwards he wrapped her body in cling film. “When the police arrived at the scene he pretended to be looking for the door key and then attempted to flee the scene, but the police caught him,” said Bhembe The victim’s body was found standing upright against a wall. A source close to the investigation said Fernando was about to leave and hide the body.  In another incident, Thulani Sibiya (24) was arrested for the murder of his 21-year-old girlfriend. According to Sgt Nompilo Qwabe he called the Schoemansdal Police Station, claiming intruders had killed her in the early hours of Monday morning. He claimed they had been sleeping when two unknown men forcefully entered the bedroom and hacked her to death. ALSO READ : Possible serial killer leaves trail in sugar-cane fields The suspects then allegedly blindfolded him and took him into the bush where they threatened to kill him. Sibiya said they were disturbed by a community member passing by and he managed to escape. Police found the woman lying in a pool of blood in her parental home. Their investigation revealed that Sibiya had assaulted her the previous day. According to Qwabe, Sibiya confessed that he killed her because she was cheating on him. Sibiya was charged with murder in the Boschfontein Periodical Court on Tuesday. He was remanded in custody and will appear in court for a formal bail application this coming Tuesday. Fernando’s  lawyer appeared on his behalf.  The case was postponed until November 21. He remains in custody.