 SWAZILAND – Two Taiwanese nationals were recently sentenced to long-term imprisonment for trying to smuggle 31 pieces of rhino horn from airports in Swaziland and Johannesburg to Hong Kong in February. Big Game Parks’ conservation and security executive, Mick Reilly called their sentencing a demonstration of the maturity with which the legal system has approached the global problem of poaching. The two men – Hsiao Chen-Hao and Chen Bei-Hsun – were arrested on February 25 at Swaziland’s King Mswati III International Airport.  Security personnel discovered three suitcases containing a number of five-litre wine boxes in which 24 pieces of rhino horn were hidden. A fourth suitcase with seven pieces of horn was intercepted at the OR Tambo Airport and linked to the two men. The horns weighed 35,14 kilograms in total. Through DNA analyses, investigators found that they came from at least eight rhinos. DNA matches linked the illicit goods to three scenes where rhinos had previously been poached – Madikwe Game Reserve in North West, Balule Game Reserve in Limpopo and Hluhluwe iMfolozi Game Reserve in KwaZulu-Natal. READ: Nkomazi Municipality receives a new fleet of vehicles Chen-Hao and Bei-Hsun pleaded guilty to three charges levelled against them – that of illegally possessing rhino horn, trading in it and unlawfully exporting it. Sentences of nine, 11 and another nine years were respectively handed down, but will be served concurrently. In addition thereto, they were ordered to replace three of the poached rhinos or to compensate their owners according to the gazetted value of the animals – R40 000 each. They were also ordered to reimburse the Swaziland Government for a fourth rhino. Reilly said the successful prosecution was in part as a result of interagency and international collaboration. He added that it was an expression of Swaziland’s no-tolerance approach when it comes to poaching. Both Chen-Hao and Bei-Hsun were listed on Interpol’s 24/7 Green Notices – a list which warns the international community about poachers.