ROCKY DRIFT &#8211; The funerals of three alleged gangsters went off without a hitch on Saturday. Police were placed on high alert ahead of the burials of Louis Harnols, Ntokozo Mokoena and Sipho Lukhele.They were shot and killed by police on Friday May 26 in an alleged shoot-out on the N12 near Benoni. The fourth victim, from Gauteng, has not been identified as yet.Harnols and Mokoena were laid to rest in the cemetery at Rocky Drift and the reception was held at a house in KaNyamazane. Lukhele was buried in KaBokweni.Ntokozo Mokoena.A statement spread on social media by AfriForum, of planned unrest before the ceremonies, caused widespread fear. Police later rubbished the allegations, but ensured their visibility on the scenes. They set up a roadblock on the route to the cemetery in Rocky Drift on Saturday.Provincial police spokesman, Sgt Gerald Sedibe said members of various units of the police, including the police helicopter, had been on high alert. No serious incidents occurred.&#8220;We arrested four suspects during the funeral in Rocky Drift regarding a vehicle which had been stolen in Gauteng,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Two suspects who were also attending the funeral proceedings were arrested in KaNyamazane for the possession of illegal firearms.&#8221;Sedibe said other people who attended were apprehended in KaNyamazane for drunken driving and in Pienaar for dagga possession.Widow Samantha HarnolsHarnols&#8217; widow issued a statement to the newspaper. &#8220;I&#8217;m alone now, picking up the pieces and I have to make sure I am able to take care of my two daughters, aged six and 12. One can imagine that waking up to a newspaper documenting an event concerning my family doesn&#8217;t make things any easier. I&#8217;d like to put forth that I love my husband, Louis Harnols.&#8220;As his wife I concern myself with my household and family, nothing further. Whatever else he may or may not have done is of no cause or consequence to me. My husband and I were happily married and living together up until his passing. He was my high-school sweetheart and I look forward to the day I will meet him again.&#8220;He was an imperfect man, human nonetheless. He may or may not have made mistakes, but only God can judge him now. Dwelling on the past will only make things difficult for my children. Dwelling too much will bring about questions, with answers which are pointless to seek in the first place. Fussing over insignificant details will not bring him back.&#8220;God bless any concubines who may or may not have existed.&#8220;I agree the circumstances around his passing seem questionable. I can see how the media may see fit to publish the same, however I do not agree that his personal relations should be made public. Furthermore, anyone can speculate based on unproven allegations. A better topic to be investigated and reported on is why the police would shoot a surrendering man as per the article published online via EWN on or around May 26. Such incidents beg the question: &#8216;Whatever happened to innocent until proven guilty?&#8217;&#8220;The public may perceive, as they wish, the character of my husband, but to me he will always be the man I married and the father of my two daughters.Louis Harnols.&#8220;We mourn the passing of Louis Harnols and we hope the public will respect the fact that he has left people behind who loved him as much as any other family would love their husband, father, brother and son. We would like to settle into the fact that we are left with a gaping hole. A missing piece that our hearts will never stop searching for.&#8221;National police spokesman, Brig Vishnu Naidoo said the Mercedes-Benz the men were driving in had been reported as hijacked in the Yeoville area in April. The Johannesburg Flying Squad members ordered the driver to stop, but the occupants responded by opening fire on the police which resulted in a shoot-out.&#8220;Accordingly members responded to ward off the attack and in the process all four armed suspects in the Mercedes-Benz were fatally wounded.&#8221; He said a policeman was also injured during the incident.Police recovered three rifles and ammunition and explosives from the Mercedes-Benz. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is investigating the matter.Ipid spokesman, Moses Dlamini stated when it came to multiple shootings, the investigation into the matter took time.