It is managed by a team of volunteer parents and teachers, and was an absolute success. The organisation of the entire weekend was highly commendable, and was enjoyed by all. It is always well supported by local and national businesses. It is said that over 14 000 people attended.The activities at the festival were endless, and there was something for everyone. There were many food options including Magnolia Caf , Picassos and Galito&#8217;s as well as smaller businesses selling delicious snacks, sweet treats and coffee. A favourite was the Dollie&#8217;s stall offering refreshing G &amp; Ts for those passing by.A kiddies field of fun kept children entertainedThe beer tent offered endless drink options, and excellent service as spectators sat back and enjoyed the live music from the likes of The Acoustics, Back Stage, Anne-Mari and Band, and Saarkie who performed over the weekend.A kiddies field of fun offered train and pony rides, jumping castles, and a magic show by David Dee among other activities.Patricia Notten working at the CANSA tea gardenThis kept children amused while parents could enjoy other amenities that the festival had to offer. An amazing snake and bird exhibition was on show, and a demo was held keeping wildlife enthusiasts entertained, as well as many equestrian events with the highlight being the South African Lipizzaner Show.There were exquisite art exhibitions, and tons of market stalls with all sorts of trinkets and gadgets for sale. A CANSA tea garden was set up to raise money for the organisation, and was the perfect spot to stop in for a cup of tea and a piece of cake after shopping. The entertainment was excellent, with stellar performances from the talented casts involved in performances such as Big Boys The Third, Boo To The Moon and Au Revoir.Rinius Ntimba, Hannelie and Kelly TaylorThe Uplands Penryn Derby was in full swing with strong school spirit and spectators cheering from the sidelines, with the first team rugby match being a major highlight, Uplands won the game 19-12. The Mountain Biking Classic took place on Sunday and was a huge success for all cyclists.The cost of the event was R50 per car for the entire weekend of which part of the proceeds went to the Rotary Club of White River.Although fund-raising is an important part of the weekend, the main focus was to bring the community together creating a memorable, fun weekend.The CMDA band performing at the beer tentThis was perfectly achieved, as the overall feeling of the weekend seemed to be happiness, enjoyment and strong school spirit.The Uplands Festival exceeded expectations, and was a wonderful weekend for old friends to catch up, new friends to meet, and everyone to come together and enjoy the beauty of the Uplands campus, with great music, food, shopping and entertainment.The organisers thanked the public for all the overwhelming support over the weekend.