MBOMBELA &#8211; Digitally executed crimes have increased drastically since the dawn of social media.According to provincial police spokesman, Sgt Gerald Sedibe, law enforcement are dealing with various cases of online crimes. Falling victim to such crimes can, according to Sedibe, be avoided by internet users acting responsibly and with caution.Where does online vigilance start?Online vigilance starts with a proper understanding of the status of your online information. Social-media platforms, such as Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, have elaborate user agreements which include privacy clauses.These clauses state that usernames and profile photos are publicly available. The platforms do not take responsibility for what third parties do with this information. Details that users publish only to a selected audience may be redistributed by members of that audience. Again, the platforms cannot be held responsible for what happens to such information.Who is responsible for your online safety?You are.Users bear the responsibility of regulating what they place onto these platforms.Expert advice on key pointsStaysafeonline.org is an initiative of the National Cyber Security Alliance. The website stresses the importance of familiarising oneself with social-network security settings and provides guidance in this respect.Armed with information about their victim, they create the impression that they have access to the individual&#8217;s details and can, therefore, be trusted. Such fraudsters may pose as telephone consultants from banks or businesses and lure victims into divulging personal details such as their banking details telephonically. In reaction to this phenomenon, Absa advised customers to &#8220;never provide personal banking information to anyone, whether in person, via email or over the phone.&#8221;Mokoena urges residents to be cautious when considering job advertisements on social media. This includes taking steps to verify the veracity of the advertisements. Do this by searching for more on the employer using Google. Obtain a telephone number and use applications such as Truecaller to check the identity of the person offering the job. Also, do not attend a job interview without telling a friend or family member where you are going.