WHITE RIVER &#8211; It promises to be a weekend of poetry, folklore, workshops, storytelling, panel discussions and interviews with some of the South Africa&#8217;s greatest literary talents.Not only is Lowveld home to many of the nation&#8217;s well-known writers, it is also the setting for many a best-selling novel or poem.The response from publishers, authors and visitors was overwhelmingly positive after the inaugural festival in 2016, and this year visitors can look forward to a host of interesting authors, including Karina Szcuzurek (The fifth Mrs Brink), Derick van der Walt, DJ Sbu and Isabella Morris, to name a few.Also read: Writer shares her war experienceRadio and television personality, Gareth Cliff will also be joining the mix. He will interview the Lowveld&#8217;s much-loved Tracy Todd about her recently-released book, Brave Lotus Flower Rides The Dragon.Casterbridge Music Development Academy will also be launching its new show on the history of South African music at the festival.A taste of the authors who will at the Lowveld Book Festival 2017 Tony Park The author of 13 novels set in Africa and six biographies is returning to the book festival for a second time. His 14th novel, The Cull, about an elite anti-poaching squad, is due for release in October 2017. Adam Cruise Adam is a conservation and travel writer, who works for a variety of magazines and newspapers. His books include the well-received Louis Botha&#8217;s War in 2015 and In the Pursuit of Solitude (2012). Adam has just moved back to Sabie.Also read: Author inspired by the stories of southern AfricaAthol Williams Athol is an award-winning poet and social philosopher. He is the author of Pushing Boulders: Oppressed to Inspired, which tells of his journey from poverty to earning master&#8217;s degrees from five of the world&#8217;s top universities. He is the only person to be awarded the Sol Plaatje EU Poetry Award twice, and was a winner of a poetry prize at Oxford.Bridget Hilton-Barber Bridget&#8217;s colourful career in the media spans more than two decades. She is best known for her wild and wacky travel writing and books. In her ninth book, a political memoir, Bridget takes you on a poignant journey back to her life as a student activist in the final days of apartheid, where she was betrayed by a police spy and ended up in jail.Elaine Pillay Elaine has written academic books and short stories. Zwai and the Little Creature is her first children&#8217;s book. In March 2017, she represented South Africa in Fiji at the Centennial Celebration of the Abolition of Indentured Labour in Fiji.Mario Cesare Mario&#8217;s career has taken him from Timbavati and Mala Mala to Olifants River. His memoir &#8211; Man-eaters, Mambas and Marula Madness &#8211; provides a wealth of lessons on conservation and stories of life in the bush. Mario recently wrote The Man with the Black Dog, a touching story of a man and his faithful canine companion. Mario brings a storyteller&#8217;s delight &#8211; and a dash of Italian passion &#8211; to sharing his world.Jayne Bauling Jayne&#8217;s 25th book will be published during 2017; Game Plan, the third novel in her Soccer Season trilogy for Cover2Cover Books. In recent years, her focus has been on writing for youth. Her YA novels have been awarded the Macmillan Writers Prize for Africa, the Sanlam Gold Prize for Youth Literature and the Maskew Miller Longman Literature Award.* The full programme and information about ticket sales will be available from mid-June at www.lowveldbookfestival.co.za. For more information, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or email lowveldbookfestival@gmail.com.