Penryn College, Uplands College, Curro Nelspruit, Ho rskool Bergvlam and Lowveld High had the opportunity to showcase their amazing talent and skills. It was a spectacular event, where school spirit ran high.The college hall was filled with parents, friends and pupils from the five schools to show their support. The Cultural Derby was originally created between Uplands and Penryn, as they share a strong focus on more than just sport, and wanted to create an opportunity for schoolchildren to perform on stage including music, singing, acting and dancing. This year it was decided to go bigger and bolder, and rope in other schools in the area. The event was organised by Thandazo Duba, pupil and head of culture on the Penryn executive committee.Nolothando Mathebula from Penryn CollegeThree experienced adjudicators from Penryn, Clotilde Peel, drama coach and teacher, Danielle Beer, ballet coach, and Judy Liebenberg, teacher and musician, moderated the performances and gave their feedback at the end of the event.Penryn College pupils perform a musical item. Lens Choloane, Lwazi Maelane, Brendan Leslie, Caelan Brent and Gabriel Dupwa.There were two components to the show, and each school participated once per section. Bergvlam opened the stage with a vocal performance by the talented Timothy Bayo, singing &#8220;To Build a Home&#8221; with a dance solo; Curro performed fantastic monologues and was followed by another vocal performance from Lowveld High. Next was an energetic dance by Uplands, and the first half of the show was ended with a spectacular musical item by Penryn College, where all instruments were played, from the violin to the drums, as well as vocals.Chantelle Massinga from Penryn College.The show was hosted by two Penryn learners, Blessing Mnisi and Zipho Tshabalala, who kept the audience thoroughly entertained with their sense of humour and charismatic personalities.The second half was even better than the first, the performers taking their acts to the next level, and the cheering from the audience became even more intense. Bergvlam did a dance and vocal performance, followed by a talented a cappella group from Lowveld High. Curro performed a dance routine and Penryn College did a dance show, comprising different genres including Indian, hip hop, Latin, ballet and belly dancing. The crowd went wild, and some even danced along. The vibe throughout the hall was that of fun, enjoyment and unity.Onkgopotse Aphane from Uplands performs a spectacular dramatic piece.The schools cheered their peers on, and sang war cries between performances. The event came to a close with a dramatic performance from Uplands College representing the freedom of South Africa, which was deeply moving. The talent and hard work from all the schools were outstanding, and the feedback from the adjudicators was excellent for each school. The performances were well rehearsed, and the passion that these children have for the cultures truly came to the fore in each piece.&nbsp;