MBOMBELA &#8211; The armed robberies of trucks carrying valuable goods, particularly cash and cigarettes, have been a massive problem for law enforcement in the area, but this week the provincial police made a breakthrough.Provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi said the joint operation between Crime Intelligence and the Tactical Response Team (TRT) led to the arrest.Three of them were apprehended around Mbombela last Friday. They were found in possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition.The trio, Siyanda Hlatshwayo (29), Kgopotso Shube (23) and Sipho Mokoena (30), appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate&#8217;s Court on Monday. They were remanded in custody and will appear again on a later date.Eight other suspects were nabbed in the early hours of Tuesday at different locations in KaBokweni, Pienaar, Masoyi and Hazyview. Hlathi said police recovered three assault rifles, including an AK-47, two pistols and dagga.They were all set to appear in court on Wednesday in KaBokweni, KaNyamazane, Masoyi and Hazyview, on charges of possession of unlicensed firearms, armed robbery and possession of dagga. The outcomes were not yet known at the time of going to press.The accused are also expected to appear in the Hazyview Magistrate&#8217;s Court on allegations of robbing the BAT vehicles.&#8220;A profiling of the suspects is under way, and there is a possibility of more charges to be added against them,&#8221; said Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, the provincial commissioner. Zuma commended the joint effort by the formations. &#8220;I thank you all for working tirelessly around the clock, bringing these notorious thugs to book and for removing firearms from the hands of merciless people.&#8221; On Monday afternoon a G4S Security truck transporting cash was attacked by more than 10 suspects armed with rifles near Thulamahashe. Police spokesman,Sgt Gerald Sedibe said they were driving a white Mercedes-Benz and a blue BMW sedan. &#8220;The truck canopy was blown open with explosives and an undisclosed amount of cash was taken.&#8221;The Mercedes-Benz allegedly pulled in front of the G4S vehicle and slowed down. The BMW then moved along the side, and the truck was forced off the road. Once they came to a stop, the armed suspects allegedly ordered the two occupants from G4S to get out and remain in the nearby field.They proceeded to blow the vehicle. After loading an undisclosed amount of cash in their vehicles, they left the scene. Nobody was injured and no arrests were made.Also read: Breaking News: Fidelity driver killed during cash in transit heist