 What is a Fidget Spinner? A Fidget Spinner is supposed to be a stress-relieving toy. The basic Fidget Spinner consists of a bearing in the centre of a design made from a variety of materials including plastic, brass, stainless steel and titanium. The toy is being marketed as helping mechanism for those who have trouble with focusing or fidgeting by acting as a release mechanism for nervous energy or psychological stress. Experts are divided on this claim, with some supporting it while others dispute its scientific basis and argue the toy may actually be more distracting.  Fidget Spinner injuries Numerous reports of Fidget Spinner-related injuries have surfaced, from a 5-year-old swallowing a piece of his Spinner, to an Australian boy who sustained an eye injury when he was showing his friends a trick.  The inventor of the Fidget Spinner isn’t making any money from her invention Catherine Hettinger is often credited as the inventor of this famous toy. She was granted the patent in 1997, but was unable to afford the renewal fee when it expired in 2005.  Videos of people doing Fidget Spinner tricks get millions of views Videos of people unboxing and explaining Fidget Spinners are all over YouTube. Some videos explain easy to expert level tricks, while others mock the fad. Others involve people using air compressors to make Fidget Spinners spin faster than humans can.  Experts say that Spinners have no medical benefit The popular belief that these toys can help with disorders such as Autism, PTSD and ADHD, has recently been shot down by several experts. In an interview with NPR, Scott Kollins, a clinical psychologist and professor at Duke University, says there is no research that exists to prove Fidget Spinners are effective at addressing those issues. Other experts say instead of helping people to focus, they believe that Fidget Spinners are actually more distracting.  Several schools have banned Fidget Spinners While some believe they help kids focus, many educators view the toy as a distraction to others. DIY Fidget Spinners have also gone to an extreme level with kids using razor blades, knives and other sharp objects which have resulted in injuries.  