MBOMBELA &#8211; Local firefighters were deployed to assist in fighting fires in Knysna yesterday. Evacuations in the town started on Wednesday night.Since Tuesday out-of-control fires have raged in the area.By Thursday night, Knysna fire chief Clinton Manual reportedly said that &#8220;there (was) a slim chance of stopping them&#8221;. The acting mayor of Knysna, Johnny Douglass ordered the evacuation at 19:15 on Wednesday.Yesterday morning, firefighters from Mpumalanga and Limpopo were called to assist by the Eden District Municipality Disaster Management Centre and the Southern Cape Fire Protection Agency.According to Kishugu spokesman, Naranda Leeuwner local pilots were ordered to fly to Knysna from bases at Ermelo, Tzaneen and Mbombela&#8217;s Lowveld Escarpment Fire Protection Association (Lefpa).Kishugu is the implementing agent of Working on Fire, a government-funded, job-creation programme focusing on implementing integrated fire management in South Africa.The group consists of spotter pilot, Quentin Steyn, chopper pilot, Bruce Benson, bomber pilot, Rinus van Raaij and helicopter pilot, Zayin Vermaak.Pilot Bruce Benson boards a helicopter en route to the Cape.Steyn and Benson previously worked in Mbombela and are now stationed at Ermelo. Van Raaij is stationed in Mbombela and Vermaak is from Tzaneen.Lowvelder spoke to Knysna resident, Elaine King. She is the editor of Lowvelder&#8217;s sister publication, Knysna-Plett Herald. &#8220;We have been evacuated, but were blessed as our home had not burned down,&#8221; she said.The evacuation was videotaped and showed King rushing from her home. Ash and smoke were blowing in the street as she made her way to the vehicle that would transport her to safety. In her hand, in a cat carrier basket, she held her feline pet.Watch a video of her evacuation by Knysna-Plett Herald.At least 200 homes in Knysna were destroyed. The Montessori school and a public hospital had burned to the ground. Eighty homes in the Oakhill area had burned to the ground.Knysna resident, Leon Wilsenach said that they had watched helplessly as neighbours&#8217; farms were engulfed by flames. &#8220;A strong wind caused bellows of smoke to blow our way and we had trouble breathing, but the fire luckily did not reach our home.&#8221; According to a report in Knysna-Plett Herald, residents took shelter from the fire near the water at Knysna Yacht Club.Image of fire damage: Wessel van Heerden George HeraldSome residents had also taken shelter in the Loerie Park area, which has sports grounds adjacent to the Indian Ocean.Image: Wessel van Heerden George HeraldAt the time of going to press, Knysna&#8217;s death toll of three had been confirmed. Among the victims was a three-year-old toddler.Domestic and wild animals were also killed. In a press statement, the National Council of SPCA&#8217;s indicated that many animals were severely injured. Some suffered from burns.Image: Wessel van Heerden George HeraldDonations of non-perishable food, water, clothing, blankets and toiletry items were requested by the Disaster Management Centre. Church Unlimited can be contacted by those wishing to make donations. Call 082-447-3827 or 082-894-0594.Image: Wessel van Heerden George HeraldImage: Wessel van Heerden George HeraldImage: Wessel van Heerden George HeraldLowvelders wishing to donate towards helping those affected by the fire can deposit funds into a bank account used by Jacaranda FM. he following bank details: JacFM GMA FNB &#8211; corporate cheque account 62411883590 Reference: Knysna fire.