MBOMBELA &#8211; Drug dealers are increasingly targeting the youth in the Lowveld from as young as 12. According to a police source, there has been an increase in the number of youth using CAT and crystal meth.&#8220;Our major problem is CAT and teenagers, as they don&#8217;t grasp the dangers of the drug. It is just known as the poor man&#8217;s cocaine.&#8221;While SANCA commemorates Drug Addiction Awareness Week, the source said CAT gives a person lots of energy but the side effects can lead to seizures and death as it increases the heart rate and temperature. &#8220;The drug also makes them lose their inhibitions, so kids are becoming more sexually active on the drug.&#8220;We are becoming a soulless society, as I find a lot of parents just don&#8217;t care or don&#8217;t want to face what their children are doing.&#8221;Drug use among the country&#8217;s youth is rife, and unfortunately continues to escalate. The average age of experimentation in South Africa is 12, and it is decreasing. This is according to Akeso Clinic&#8217;s addictions counsellor, Shelley Andersen.In 2010 a study reported that 12 per cent of all South African learners had used at least one illegal drug such as heroin, mandrax and cocaine. This figure is one of the highest in the African region. Studies show that people who start drinking before the age of 15 are four times more likely to become alcoholics, she added.Drugs seized.TrendsCurrent trends among the youth are, the drop in age to 12, the resurgence of mandrax, and also the fact that the youth struggle to see the dangers and effects of marijuana and alcohol, said Andersen.&#8220;Youth issues largely prevalent include: bullying, peer pressure, stress, depression, anxiety, anger, self-harming, low self-worth and suicide attempts. Many learners report that they have been either offered, sold or given illicit drugs at schools.&#8221;Double the world normSouth Africa&#8217;s drug problem, however, extended far beyond the youth, with substance abuse even affecting people in their eighties. South Africa is among the top 10 narcotics and alcohol abusers in the world &#8211; twice that of the world norm. School kids who use alcohol or drugs are three times more involved with violent crimes. Children who have one alcoholic parent have a 60 per cent chance of becoming one. This percentage rises to 80 per cent if both parents are alcoholics. 50 per cent of grade 11 learners admitted that they have used alcohol in the last year. 31 per cent of school learners drink socially. By the age of 18 more than 60 per cent of teenagers had been drunk. 30 per cent had used school or work time to drink. In 2007 there was a clear increase in patients under 20 years, who came for treatment for dagga addiction. A 2007 report said the youngest drug dealer was a eight-year-old boy from Douglasdale. 35 per cent of high school learners are problem drinkers who drink at least nine units of spirits, one litre of wine or two litres of beer. In 2008 it was reported that 12 years before, two per cent of patients in rehab centres were under 20 years of age. In 2008 the number increased to 20 per cent. Most were addicted to tik, dagga and heroin.Telltale signsYoung people with drug problems may act differently than they used to. They may, for example: Isolate themselves Lose interest in their favourite things Exhibit poor hygiene such not bathing, changing clothes, or brushing their teeth Be either really tired and sad or very energetic Talk fast or say things that do not make sense May be nervous or anxious Have mood swings &#8211; quickly change between feeling bad and feeling good Sleep at strange hours Eat a lot more or a lot less than usual Poor relationships Miss appointments or social gatherings Bunk school or work.