&#8220;We always deliver a professional service by ensuring that every interaction with our clients counts,&#8221; says CEO Robby Stevenson.The pilot programme runs for a duration of 120 days. Within this time Kishugu Fleet Solutions works hand in hand with its clients to ensure that the programme is run seamlessly.It entails the installation of DriveCam and DriveTrac units in 10 per cent of a client&#8217;s fleet. Training of management, staff and drivers is provided to ensure that there is company-wide awareness of the pilot programme. This is coupled with weekly reviews to ensure that clients and Kishugu Fleet Solutions meet their key performance indicators.The pilot programme provides clients with insight to information they have never had. Other benefits include gaining exposure to previously unidentified bad driving habits, addressing these behaviours with drivers through the coaching process and driving improvement in drive culture and habits. All of this is provided before committing to a fee.During the pilot project, Kishugu analyses a client&#8217;s business needs, accident history, maintenance, insurance, fuel and driver training costs. This helps identify focus areas that need improvement in order to mitigate risk.Kishugu&#8217;s latest pilot clients include Rudamans, Ramburg Beef, Buhle Betfu Carriers and TRAC N4&#8217;s emergency response vehicles. They have all successfully entered into fixed-term contracts with KFS after experiencing these benefits.A pilot project was recently launched at Stewarts &amp; Lloyds. &#8220;The DriveCam system has enabled us to successfully monitor our fleet 24 hours a day,&#8221; said sales manager Dewald Crafford. &#8220;Drivers are more vigilant and focused on how and where they drive. Fuel consumption has also shown a significant improvement.Before DriveCam, we were susceptible to frequent incidents and minor accidents. Since the installation, training and awareness of the DriveCam, no accidents have occurred and all aspects of driving was enhanced.&#8221;For professional Fleet Management Solutions, contact 013-752-7047 or info@kishugufleet.com or visit kishugu.com.