 As a relatively new school, Curro has come in leaps and bounds to have two teams playing in the quarter-finals. As Mpumalanga winners, the Curro Nelspruit u/14 and u/15 teams are representing the Pumas in the tournament. The first quarter-final was the u/14 match between Curro and Hoërskool Vryburg. The match started at a blistering pace with Curro scoring in the first minute with a well-worked try in the corner.  From here on Curro controlled the half with their forwards providing quick ball for the scrum half to unleash their backline. At times, the Vryburg players appeared shell-shocked and could not keep up with the pace at which Curro played the game.  The home side scored another three tries in the first half, but through a defensive error allowed the Vryburg inside centre to crash over for their solitary try on the day with a half-time score of 26-10 to Curro. In the second half the Curro backline showed great skill in maintaining possession and distributing the ball in contact situations.  This created multiple scoring opportunities for the outside backs which they fully took advantage of by scoring a total of seven tries in the second half with a final score of 65-10. This was the highest winning margin for any of the quarter-final matches in the Virseker competition. In the u/15 match it was Curro against Hoërskool Brits.  From the outset is was clear that Brits were intent on using their much larger forward pack to penetrate Curro’s defence. Curro showed good patience in absorbing the Brits’ attacks and regaining possession to end a very tightly contested first half 8-5 up. In the second half Curro came out firing and scored a try after some skilful interplay between their back and forwards. From here the match went back and forth and it was clear both teams were determined to win the game.   It was thrilling rugby to watch, but unfortunately Curro did not take all their chances and allowed Brits to end the game as 17-15 winners. This Saturday Curro will host the u/14 semi-finals against Leeuwenhof Akademie from the Lions union.