Lisa Sheard is the Executive Director of Tourism at Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism. Her early years were spent working as an economist in the corporate sector after which she moved into the tourism space.Now after over 20 years in the tourism industry, she wears a couple of other hats too, including being an owner at Misty Mountain Lodge, Long Tom Pass and tourism consultant.She is passionate about tourism development and travel. She watches cricket and reads for relaxation.Thoughts from Lizelle:I found Lisa a very interesting Lady. She is Independent, strong, knowledgeable and just over-all an amazing woman. She is down to earth but also very straight forward. She speaks her mind and accept people for who they are, but she expects the same from them in return. It was a privilege to spend time with her!1. CORE RELATIONSHIPS:If you are happy at home, happiness will follow you everywhere else. Work hard at your core relationships, being your spouse, children, and direct family and closest friends.Make them work! They are your soundboard.This is a pre-condition in Lisa s life; the key to your inner well-being. These are also the people that moulds you and make you stronger. Help you to take risks.2. BE COMFORTABLE IN YOUR OWN SKIN:3. BE STRONG:4. MANAGEMENT STYLE:5. RESPECT IS EARNED:I don t have unquestioned admiration for people in high positions. They also, need to earn respect.6. YOU HAVE TO FIND YOUR WINGS:7. UNDERSTAND RISK:Your life is determined by your experiences, you are a product of your experiences. Life moulds you!8. RECOGNISE THE KEY PEOPLE IN YOUR LIFE:The model around Bring Change Africa is built on the principle where influential business men and women, shares their knowledge and experience which is built on a local methodology, with a chosen entrepreneur that acts as a mentee. Bring Change Africa supports projects at a critical early stage of their development and act as a catalyst for entrepreneurs by building a community that can accelerate the impact of forward-thinking projects, ideas and people. We build close relationships with experts across sectors that understand and support&#8217;s the importance of a growth mindset.Enter your business or proof of concept and you could be chosen as the 2018 mentee to enjoy a mentoring journey with some of the Lowveld&#8217;s most influential. Read more about our organisation on www.bringchangeafrica.org or visit http://bringchangeafrica.org/areas/south-africa/lowveld