MBOMBELA &#8211; 2017 marks the second year that the Color Run has come to the Lowveld. The event was a great success and loads of fun was had by all who attended.The Color Run is now the single largest event series in the world, and has more then tripled in growth since its debut event in 2011. These events are hosted in over 200 cities and 40 countries every year. The aim is to promote health and happiness by bringing communities together to participate in the Color Run.This year&#8217;s theme was &#8220;Superheroes&#8221; &#8211; celebrating the everyday heroes across South Africa. Most friends and families who participated arrived all dressed up in capes, tutus, with funky hairstyles and wigs, and face paint to accessorise their white outfits and tie in with the theme.There was plenty of excitement in the air, as participants began arriving to register and collect their participation packs which included an official Color Run T- shirt, a headband, colour powder and temporary tattoos.The weather forecast turned out to be in everyone&#8217;s favour. It was a crisp wintry morning, but the sun shone brightly. Dave Walters of Rise FM was the MC and welcomed the crowd, getting everyone into the spirit before the race began at 11:00.Some ran the route around the stadium, while others took a slower-paced stroll, enjoying a lovely Saturday. There were four stops along the way, where the &#8220;runners&#8221; were doused in red, blue, green and orange. By the end of the day all participants were plastered from head to toe in a rainbow of colour.These runs cater to all fitness levels, ages and backgrounds &#8211; making it the vibrant event that it is, as anyone can participate.Each year the Color Run partners with charities to help shine a light on the amazing work they do and to highlight the causes they stand for. This year Capitec Bank returned as headline sponsor, ensuring that R10 of every ticket sold was donated to a beneficiary school in each city across the most vulnerable communities in South Africa. The festivities continued afterwards with dancing and music, and continued explosions of colour.