 Old Joe is a grand 90 years old this year and to celebrate his heritage Lowvelder has decided to host a massive ‘Keep TRAC of Old Joe’ competition with numerous prizes. • Get your collector’s map inside Lowvelder of Friday 4 August and keep it to stick all 26 hidden Old Joe images on. The Old Joe images will appear in Lowvelder newspapers each edition form August to October ’17 for 13 weeks. • Complete the collection, fill in your details on the map and bring it to the Lowveld Media office to enter. We are at 12 Stinkhout Crescent, Nelspruit. Your complete entry map puts you in the draw to win one of three fabulous prizes for a breakaway at Mount Sheba, A Forever Lodge. • Closing date for entries is Friday 3 November at 12:00 pm.  There is also two giveaways per week that you could win. If you spot the hidden Old Joe in your copy of Lowvelder and it has a Lowveld Media stamp on it, you have one of a few selected copies that qualify for the spot prize of the day. The first person to present their stamped copy of the Old Joe image at Lowveld Media reception will be the winner of the prize of the day. Remember to bring along your collector’s map – which must be up to date with Old Joe images. Back copies and maps are available for sale from Lowveld Media reception. So if you miss one you can quickly catch up by paying us a visit, and the usual R3,50. Businesses can also get involved by sponsoring one of the 26 Old Joe’s that will be features on the collectors map. For more information on this not-to-be-missed marketing opportunity, you can read Be part of keeping TRAC of Old Joe or call Colletha on 082-745-2387. It just keeps getting better! The kind folks at Swadini, A Forever resort, will also be giving away four nights for four to the value of R10 000. All you have to do is like their Facebook page and share the Old Joe competition post to automatically be entered into the draw.  Joe Barbas: Die man agter Ou Joe Joe might be old but he has not aged a bit Versamel 90 jaar van Old Joe – Slegs in Laevelder 