MBOMBELA &#8211; Nine-years-old Vuyo Nkosi had the time of his life on Friday, when his dream to fly in a helicopter was made a reality.The little boy was surprised by the flight during his discharge party from Mediclinic Nelspruit where he spent the past two months receiving treatment for cancer.Vuyo spent four weeks in ICU following the removal of his brain tumor. He also received physiotherapy from Stepmed. On the day, the shy and ecstatic Vuyo jumped with excitement.Ms Nerine Wasserfall from Stepmed said during their light conversations with Vuyo they realised that he is adventurous. They then secretly arranged that for him. He told us that he would love to board a plane or ride on a motorbike. We organised all these for him the party and his helicopter trip because we wanted to do something special for him. During the time we spent with him we grew great love for him, said Wasserfall.According to Wasserfall it wouldn t have been possible to arrange the flight present without the humanitarian roles by those who volunteered to help. The helicopter ride was sponsored by local pilot and businessman owner, Mr Victor Picoto. Picoto also jumped in to make Vuyo s dream a reality.Mr Trevor Wilson from Kishugu arranged Picoto and helicopter. ER 24 s Mr Greg Wilcox arranged and sponsored the inflight paramedic,Ms Kim Habib who flew alongside Vuyo to ensure his safety during the flight.Mr Kohammed Essa from RUDamans Bike and Marine Nelspruit sponsored the bike trip around the hospital. We thank all the people who made this a reality. Ms Robyn Baard from the hospital arranged Helipad clearance and medical clearances for Vuyo. Without the volunteers all of these wouldn t have been possible, said Wasserfall.Wasserfall said they were excited to have touched his life. It s nice to treat the body but to impact the life of a patient is more fulfilling, she said.His aunt, Ms Zanele Nhlapo, said the family was appreciative to Stepmed and Medi-Clinic for the love they showed to Vuyo. Normally when we send our loved ones to hospitals we do not expect the doctors to gobeyond the call of duty and when they do we need to appreciate them, she said.