MBOMBELA &#8211; Drug abuse has reached crisis level among local youths. Children as young as eight are dying from drug overdoses in the Lowveld. Most of these hard drugs are smuggled over neighbouring countries&#8217; borders and make their way through the city to the rest of the country and even worldwide. The N4 is a gateway fro dealers to get their product into the rest of Africa. South Africa is a springboard for smuggling narcotics to Europe and the United States.According to a trusted source within the local police, the youngest death due to an overdose of heroin which he has seen, was that of an eight-year-old girl. If you speak to teenagers they know what the drugs look like, but they don t know what they do. Read more here: Army fighting war against smugglersHe blames schools and parents for failing to educate children about the dangers of drug use, and having a tendency to leave them to their own devices for entertainment. The law, according to the SAPS officer, is failing society on a large scale. &#8220;Some parents leave their children with loads of cash. They do not realise dealers are targeting entertainment areas.&#8221; He added that local schools face a massive problem, but some do not take action out of fear of bad publicity.Bossies Community Justice s Mr Albert Gryvenstein, said most high school users&#8217; choice of drug is CAT. CAT is the poor man s version of cocaine and it has become highly popular with the young people, he said. The annual turnover of the drug trade in the country which is consumed and smuggled through the country to the rest of the world, is estimated to be at R18 trillion.Read more here: Schools must become proactive about drugsThe source argues that educating children could solve the problem as a lack of demand would diminish the supply. Parents and family members have been robbed by their own child and then they watch helplessly as their kid slowly becomes a shell of who they used to know, before they die. Read more here:Entertainment areas a hotbed for drug dealers He cited it as a contributing factor to xenophobic attacks as parents&#8217; pure frustration at the impact of drugs on their children boiled over. &#8220;Young teenage girls are prostituting themselves, the boys are getting into crime to support their habits. And the users are becoming younger. Prior to 2010, the average age for a serious drug addict was 23. Today it is 14. According to the South African Central Drug Authority (CDA) for 2017, minors aged between 10 and 18 are the most at risk of exposure. Its statistics show that, on average, one in every three children has a 99 per cent chance to become an addict.Read more here: The drug trade and the international syndicates behind itWhereas dealers used to operate in the cities, they have rapidly spread to townships since 2013. According to the police source, an increase in heroin abuse in townships has escalated and dealers are targeting the youth. &#8220;Now we find they have settled into the township areas so they are closer to their target market.&#8221;He went on, Nyaope is just the street name for dirty heroin, but it is heroin. The new craze, &#8220;Blue tooth&#8221;, whereby someone injects him- or herself with the blood of a user who is high on heroin, has increased the risk children were taking. Finding help once hooked is difficult. For those already hooked on drugs, rehabilitation centres are expensive and there is practically no aftercare for the patients once they leave. There are no safe houses and detox venues. There is only one detox centre (M-Care at Macadamia Village), but it is only affordable for people with medical aid.&#8221;A lack of gainful employment also contributed to addicts lapsing in their recovery, he said.