 Elaine Wedderspoon, veroordeelde dief en beweerde aanrander, is steeds agter tralies nadat sy drie weke gelede gearresteer is. Die arrestasie is op grond van lasbriewe gemaak wat in 2014 en 2015 uitgereik is omdat sy glo versuim het om vir hofverskynings op te daag. Daar is &#8216;n bedrog- en aanrandingsklag hangend teen haar. Sy sal weer op 15 Maart verskyn.Elaine Wedderspoon. The case against alleged rhino-poaching middleman and syndicate key player, Mr Gert Lund, will be back in the Skukuza Regional Court on March 16. He was first charged six years ago. Of the seven men who initially stood trial, only Lund remains. The charges relate to the poaching of nine white rhinos in the Kruger National Park and Lionspruit. A plea agreement was negotiated between Lund and the state in March last year. On the day of the intended plea, he arrived in court without an attorney and applied for state-funded legal aid. No guilty plea was rendered. Lund&#8217;s bail of R25 000 was extended. Mr Pepe Vinhas was arrested at the Lebombo Border Post on Monday. He was charged with contravening a protection order obtained by Mr Carlos Carvalho for allegedly managing an online smear campaign against him. Vinhas was prohibited from communicating harmful content aimed at him, and it is alleged that he recently did so. He was released on bail and appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate&#8217;s Court yesterday.Mr Pepe Vinhas. A warrant of arrest was issued for one accused in the &#8220;perfume-gang&#8221; case after he failed to show up for a court appearance on February 27. Messrs Tebogo Moloantoa, Edward Marion Matthys, Alistar Ferris, Baltazar Nkabinde, and Ishmael Smith were caught after they allegedly stole perfume from Mopani Pharmacy and toys from Toy Zone at Crossing Centre in April last year. They were granted bail. The group must be in court again on March 31, when the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) will confirm whether their trial will be moved to the Nelspruit Regional Court. Mr Gustav Olivier is due back in the Nelspruit Regional Court on March 20. He stands accused of making a bomb threat to the Nelspruit Police Station&#8217;s 10111-line on Freedom Day last year. He was previously accused of making a bomb threat at Produkta Nissan when he identified as Mr Kenny Swart. Those charges were withdrawn.Also read: Hof tik SANParke oor die vingers Dick Hattingh&#8217;s sentencing will continue on April 3. He recently reappeared in the Nelspruit Regional Court after he was found guilty of stealing R600 000 from the Lowveld Hunter&#8217;s Organisation. He was convicted on 12 counts of theft last year.Mr Dick Hattingh. Mr Jaco Heunis, former employee of Mega Hydraulics in Mbombela, will appear in the Nelspruit Magistrate&#8217;s Court again on April 3. He is charged with defrauding the company of R1,1 million. He was released on R10 000 bail. Three Mozambican citizens arrested for the contravention of the Medicine Release Act in January are due back in court on April 7. Ms Lucretia Desse Mitilana Manjaxi, Mr Orlando Ernesto Chibolico, and Mr Ramos Antonio Mabasso were allegedly caught with illicit prescription medication, reportedly destined for a hospital in the neighbouring country which treats children with heart problems free of charge. Their bail of R2 000 each was extended. The men who stand accused of killing Bundu Estate resident, Mr Clive Bowers (60), appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate&#8217;s Court on January 26. Messrs Osvaldo Manyike, Thomas Joseph Mashaba, Louis Mathe, and Pedro Chambale have been in custody since their arrest two years ago. They have been linked to numerous violent robberies, including a series of panga attacks in December 2014. The case was postponed to May.Also read: Orgideedokter deel wengeheime Mr Pierre Kruger, formerly of the management of White River Mills, appeared in the KaBokweni Magistrate&#8217;s Court. He is accused of stealing flour worth R1,5 million from his employer between May 2014 and January 2016. Mr Jan Gutter, alleged that Kruger falsified various invoices, other documents and signatures. He allegedly increased clients&#8217; credit limits wrongfully in order to draw benefits and committed tax fraud. Kruger was released on bail, and the case was postponed for a possible transfer to the Nelspruit Magistrate&#8217;s Court. A date must still be fixed.