 The adored rockers performed at the Barnyard Theatre at Casterbridge Centre on Thursday and Friday, in association with Casterbridge Music Development Academy (CMDA). The talented band’s stellar performance was the start of its countrywide tour The Parlotones: The Stories Behind the Songs. It is a little different to its ordinary performances. Each member gets up close and personal with fans, taking them behind the scenes of the band’s songwriting journey, experiences and influences over the years. Glen Hodgson, Kahn Morbee, Paul Hodgson and Neil Pauw The show, hosted by CMDA, was originally set to be one night only, but due to popular demand and a sold-out event, the band added an extra night to please Lowvelders. The Parlotones comprises Kahn Morbee (lead singer and guitar) Neil Pauw (drums and percussion) and brothers, Glen (bass, keyboard and backing vocals) and Paul Hodgson (lead guitar). The band – formed in 1998 – released its first album, Episoda, in 2003 and has since released six more. Of which two, Radiocontrolledrobot and Stardust Galaxies both won a South African Music Award for best rock album. The Parlotones has also received numerous local awards, and a handful of international songwriting awards, gaining recognition across Europe and the USA. Kahn Morbee and Glen Hodgson While on its countrywide tour the band is releasing a coffee-table book, Parlotones: The Stories Behind the Songs, which has been co-written by all four members, with detailed insights of each album, a perfect addition for fans to add to their collection of memorabilia. For more about the Parlotones countrywide tour also read: Parlotones set to rock Casterbridge The shows were spectacular and fans were enchanted listening to the inspiring, true accounts of the lives of The Parlotones. Band members kept the crowd amused, with their captivating sense of humour and charm, and of course their performance of some of their best songs over the years, highlighting various moments in their career; the crowd was left singing and dancing, and begging for more at the end. After both shows The Parlotones met with delighted fans for a chat, photos and autographs.