SKUKUZA &#8211; SANParks confirmed at 9:20 today that an employee of South African National Parks (SANParks) based in the Kruger National Park (KNP) was trampled to death by an elephant and another sustained serious injuries, when a group of SANParks employees were attacked by a herd of elephants yesterday (30 March 2017) late afternoon in the Mooiplaas Section of the Park near Mopani Camp.Mr William Mabasa, acting head of communications of SANParks said in a press release that the circumstances are still being investigated in order to establish as to what actually happened in that situation.&#8220;SAPS and medical professionals were called to the scene to assist the two employees who were attacked.They could not save the other colleague who had already lost her life when they arrived, and the injured was rushed to a hospital in Tzaneen,&#8221; said Mabasa. On behalf of the SANParks management and Staff, we would like to express our heartfelt condolences to the family, relatives and friends of the deceased; and to wish the other colleague who is currently in hospital a speedy recovery , said Mabasa.Reported yesterday by Lowvelder:A female SANParks employee was killed by an elephant five kilometres from Mopani Camp yesterday afternoon in the Kruger National Park and declared dead on the scene by a paramedic.Another female SANParks employee who was also working in the veld was taken to the Medi-Clinic in Tzaneen with a fractured right femur. The night duty manager at the Mediclinic Tzaneen confirmed to Lowvelder that the patient was treated for her injuries in the clinic. She was transferred to the Medi-Clinic Limpopo in Polokwane during the early morning hours of March 31.Mr. Jaco Gericke of Maponya 911 said to Lowvelder that the paramedics called out were escorted by rangers with rifles to the scene of the accident to assist.According to him the deceased and the injured woman were not rangers but part of a team working in the area.They got the call to go out at 16:20 from section ranger Andrew Desmet. Gericke confirmed that both females were staff members of SANParks. This was confirmed by SANParks. The elephant tusk entered her lower back and exited her chest, Gericke said of the deceased. She also had a severe open fracture to her left knee.According to Gericke the elephant disappeared into the bush after the incident. &#8220;I don&#8217;t know if he was part of a herd. The elephant was already gone when we arrived.&#8221;&nbsp;READ Tweet of Maponya 911