WHITE RIVER &#8211; A woman accused of attempting to kill her husband and another who was charged with her husband&#8217;s murder, appeared separately in White River Magistrate&#8217;s Court yesterday. Ms Maria Ferreira (53), a Mozambican citizen from Ponta do Oura, appeared on charges of conspiracy to commit murder.&nbsp;Ms Ethel Mdluli and her co-accused Mr Peter Khoza (52) and Mr Xolani Mngwenya (34) were charged with the murder of her husband, Mr Solomon Mdluli (57). Lowvelder reported that Solomon, principal of Mahlatse Secondary School, was strangled and suffocated to death with a black plastic bag in his home on January 23.A television and an air con unit were stolen from the house. His vehicle was taken and found abandoned in KaNyamazane a few days later. At the time, Ethel claimed she had been tied up by a suspect wearing a balaclava. Solomon&#8217;s elder brother, Mr Mzulu Caiphus Mdluli, said that his brother was killed shortly after being released from Kiaat Hospital after suffering from an unknown illness.Read more here: UPDATE: Police make a breakthrough in murder caseEthel, who is a nurse at Rob Ferreira, was arrested at work on Thursday. Khoza and Mngwenya were apprehended the same day. Yesterday protesters outside the court carried placards calling for &#8220;justice for Mdluli,&#8221; and chanted that the three should be denied bail.According to Hawks spokesman, Capt Dineo Sekgotodi, Ferreira was arrested on Sunday. She and her husband Mr Carlos Ferreira (55) were visiting friends in White River. She was arrested after she paid an undercover policeman, who was to assist her in killing her husband. Ferreira apparently planned to have her husband murdered near Malalane when they returned to Mozambique.Sekgotodi said Ferreira had given the agent R500 for petrol, but intended to pay him R20 000 for the hit. &#8220;Immediately after the payment she was arrested.&#8221; Ferreira had two previous marriages, her first husband died of Cancer. Her second husband was murdered in 2012. He was stabbed seven times outside his home by an unknown suspect while changing a tyre on his vehicle. The case was still pending. The Hawks are now investigating Ferreira regarding her involvement.&nbsp;During her appearance, Ferreira vomited and acted erratically. The magistrate, Ms Winnie Baloyi, asked if she needed medical attention, but she said that she only needed her husband&#8217;s lawyer. Baloyi had to remind her that her husband was not arrested. He was not in court. Baloyi postponed both matters for formal bail applications until March 27. All of the accused remain in custody.