&#8220;All protocol observed.It is a great honour to stand here before you today to welcome back Team South Africa! This is one of the proudest and most humbling moments of my life.Less than two weeks ago we sent off a team of 24 Special Olympics South Africa athletes to take on the world in our name. IN OUR NAME. They competed against nearly three thousand athletes from over one hundred countries in three sporting codes; floor hockey, figure skating and short speed skating.ALSO READ: Dr Phosa, princess Charlene at Special Olympics openingToday they return triumphant. EACH AND EVERY ONE of them bears the mark of honour, the mark of their achievements around their necks.They have been recognized on a global stage, not for their disability, but for their ability! This is a triumph indeed!ALSO READ: Mathews Phosa for president?They have demonstrated that inclusion and acceptance can transcend any boundary, any preconceived notion and any discrimination, to create a society where everyone is valued and every achievement can be celebrated.They have also demonstrated to each and every one of us, with their achievements, that any obstacle can be overcome if you are brave in the attempt!I now have the immense privilege of introducing our 2017 Special Olympics South Africa medal and ribbon winners. I ask that each of these honoured athletes come forward to be recognized:ALSO READ: Rising through the obstacles My Story GOLD MEDAL:1. Floor Hockey our Special Olympics South Africa Floor Hockey team! This is the 3rd consecutive gold for our floor hockey team at the Winter Special Olympics. Junior Malange Hulisani Munasi Sasa Tshimangadzo Mulalo Mufanadi Pfarelo Phaswana Dakalo Khomola Rudzani Maphalaphathwa Kencilly Mashaba Duncan Livhusha Ipfi Mngwangwe Unarine Mufhadi Thuso Murulana Gudani Manenzhe2. Bianca Basson figure skating 3. Isaiah Moloi short speed skating 555 metres 4. Shirnell Swart short speed skating 333 metresSILVER MEDAL:1. Shane Bentley &#8211; Short speed skating 333 metres 2. Caroline Mignolet figure skatingBRONZE MEDAL:1. Joanne Cowley figure skating 2. Anthony Smit short speed 333 meters 3. Anthony Smit 555 meters 4. Thato Serepedi figure skating 5. Shane Bentley 555 short speed skatingFOURTH PLACE RIBBON:1. Kenneth Mokabo figure skating 2. Tyrell Sykes Figure skatingFIFTH PLACE RIBBON:1. Kevin Gibbs figure skatingLadies and gentleman, I present to you the 2017 Special Olympics South Africa National Team and our new heroes!&#8221;