Mathews Phosa College was established in 1994 by Mr and Mrs Struwig to prepare learners for responsible adulthood through means of relevant and innovative education aimed at the actualisation of their full personal potential, thus enabling them to make a meaningful contribution to the southern African community.Situated approximately 60km west of Mbombela, Mathews Phosa College is located on a tranquil, and safe estate surrounded by an abundance of fauna and flora, most students from the city find the mountains, trees, animals and bird life a breath of fresh air.The founders of Mathews Phosa College, Mr and Mrs P StruwigMathews Phosa College has lived up to its vision of preparing holistic leaders for southern Africa. All learners in the school are boarders and have 24-hour access to excellent tuition offered by live in teachers. 70% of the learners on average qualify for Bachelors degree study yearly and that together with the almost perfect 100% record that the school has, make the school indisputably the best in the province.The school recently received a commendation from parliament for its outstanding results. The school also offers comprehensive personal development programs such as the guardianship system which bridges the gap between school and home ensuring that the learner has all the assistance one may require.&nbsp;The use of the latest learning and teaching materials, as well as the small class sizes, provides the optimal environment for full engagement in the classroom. Extra lessons and academic support are available for those who require the one-on-one additional help in their academic journey.Their secret recipe for success is love and care with large doses of discipline and order.The school is a registered examination center and subscribes to the widely recognized CAPS curriculum. A wide number of subjects in the Science and Commerce fields are offered. These subjects lead to an even more diverse range of careers from Engineering to Chartered Accounting, Law to Entrepreneurship and Medicine. The school is also Umalusa accredited.Learners are encouraged to join the various clubs available such as Art, Chess, Debate Music, Debate, Dance and many more. Learners have the opportunity to showcase their skills in and outside the school. Learners not only get invited to perform at various festivals, but also participate in the Eisteddfod where they achieve excellent results.In 2017, the school was represented by 14 groups, and 43 individuals, who took home mostly gold and prestige awards.Mathews Phosa college offers boarding facilities that are both homely and comfortable. The boys and girls hostels are separated, and are manned by a matron and boarding master with the assistance of live in educators.Study is done in the hostel under supervision by teachers who not only monitor the study sessions but are also available to give assistance where necessary.The kitchen ensures that learners get 3 meals daily which are nutritional, balanced and tastes like a home-cooked meal. Boarders are provided with fresh milk, bread, condiments, tea and coffee on a daily basis to ensure that nobody goes to bed on an empty stomach. Learners with special dietary requirements are catered for if the manager has been informed in writing.You can contact Mathews Phosa College telephonically on 013733 3224 or via email at admin@mathewsphosacollege.co.za.You can also apply online.