 MBOMBELA – It drew a record number of votes for the most popular businesses in the city, with a total of 58 271 counted by the designated auditing company, Stabilis – a whopping 25 786 more than last year. As a result of the spiralling amount of votes and the public demand, the management of Lowveld Media decided to award three companies the much-sought-after service excellence awards this year. The winners were Fishaways Crossing, CSG Hi-Tech, and Salonique. Johan Maartens and Sarel Cilliers from Fishaways Crossing, Melanie Kotzé and Chantelle Smith from Salonique and Vernon Lancaster and Johnny Kerswill from Hi-Tech Security. The voting was only online, which is also where all the winners will be seen, along with a special supplement in Lowvelder on Tuesday October 24. The guest speaker at this year’s gala event at Emnotweni was the well-known managing editor of Moneyweb, Ryk van Niekerk.  His presentation highlighted statistics to encourage business owners to stay positive in the current climate. Even though numbers may not be that great, it is still a growing business environment and entrepreneurship is the stimulus for a surviving economy. Bossies Community Justice’s Albert Gryvenstein with Buks Esterhuizen, Irma Green and De Wet Potgieter An added value to this year’s competition was an exciting new element when the first online winner, Amanda Strydom of West Acres, was chosen by the people of Mbombela. She won a two-night, midweek breakaway for two people to the five-star Walkerson’s Hotel & Spa, Dullstroom. The prize also includes dinner, bed and breakfast and a spa massage for two people sharing. Amanda Strydom, the reader who won the exciting prize. Best of Mbombela’s partners this year were: Mo’s Studio, Sonpark which did all the certicates and framing; Stabilis, which audited all the votes; AVS Hire which supplied the sound and related support at the award function; Emnotweni for the venue and food; Dave Walters who has been the witty host for so many years; and the table decor done by Country Flowers in White River.