Lowvelder readers stand a chance to win eight tickets to the Bok-matches screened at Emnotweni Boktown on 30 September and 7 October, as well as a R1000 food and drinks voucher. All you have to do is look for your hidden Old Joe in today s printed edition, and if yours has a Lowveld Media stamp on it, and you make it to our office first, you ll be a winner!Since its inception in October 1997, Emnotweni Casino has established itself as a premier entertainment destination in Mpumalanga and within Mbombela.Over the years the casino has staged a myriad of world-class events, shows and exhibitions which have attracted many visitors to the city.The Emnotweni complex offers an array of entertainment options. It adjoins Riverside Mall, one of the region s popular shopping centres, with Explorers Restaurant and Jacaranda FM&#8217;s state-of-the-art regional broadcasting studio seamlessly connecting the casino with the mall&#8217;s promotion court and movies@ Emnotweni.Looking for a drink with a view? Visit the GlassBar at Emnotweni to enjoy your favourite drink while overlooking the Lowveld escarpment. Light meals and cocktails are also available at the GlassBar.The casino itself boasts 425 Slot machines offering a wide variety of games and denominations. In addition, there are gaming Tables which includes American Roulette, Blackjack and Poker games. The Salon Priv offers gamers privacy and exclusivity.Boktown, the only other place for Springbok Supporters to be on game dayNot everyone can get to the stadium to watch the Springboks but Boktown is a place where the most passionate South African supporters congregate for a uniquely Springbok Supporters experience. Boktown, brought to you by the official Springbok Supporters Club, will be done at Emnotweni on 30 September and 7 October.It creates a unique experience that goes beyond the 80 minutes of on-field action. This rugby place-of-worship gives South African rugby lovers the best alternative to being at the game. Fans watch the test live on the big screens but the entertainment starts long before the first whistle and continues long after the final whistle.It s a Springbok rugby supporters dream experience that also speaks to the entire family. There s interactive fun for the kids, cold drink specials, scrumptious food, bars, DJ s, sponsor giveaways and competitions.Boktown opens two hours before kick-off, so get there early to secure your seat and enjoy the gees and action with your friends, family and neighbours. Tickets are on sale from the venues as well as at Computicket and include a free local drink. Find and follow Emnotweni on Facebook for more exciting events and promotions.TSOGO SUN PROUDLY SUPPORTS THE NATIONAL RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING PROGRAMME. WINNERS KNOW WHEN TO STOP. ONLY PERSONS OVER 18 ARE PERMITTED TO GAMBLE. NATIONAL PROBLEM GAMBLING COUNSELLING TOLL FREE HELPLINE 0800 006 008.