Lowvelder readers stand a chance to win a Volvo hamper containing a Volvo tog bag, leather care kit, Volvo coffee mug, Volvo umbrella, Volvo cap and Volvo whiskey glasses. All you have to do is look for your hidden Old Joe in today’s printed edition, and if yours has a Lowveld Media stamp on it, and you make it to our office first, you’ll be a winner! Don’t forget to bring along your Old Joe 90 map to prove that you are participating in the competition. A special retro painting to commemorate the 90th anniversary of Old Joe, the stone sentinel alongside the N40 on the Schoemanskloof on the way to the Lowveld. This cladding is similar to what old Joe was once painted in die early sixties. This was according to an old photograph. Sticky black or white road paint was then used and the road maintenance teams as well as passersby, all had a go at it. In commemoration this time, a nice rounded off version was done by the official Old Joe artists currently,  Wouter de Wet also known as Ghost.  90 years of Volvo: New SA-bound XC60 Sweden – Founded in April 1927, Volvo Cars is celebrating its 90th birthday with the start of production of its new XC60 in Gothenburg, Sweden. The new XC60 will leave the factory 90 years to the month after the first Volvo, the ÖV4, saw production on April 14, 1927.  This first Volvo sold a total of 275 vehicles in its life time, a modest target back then. The new XC60 replaces one of the best-selling models in Volvo’s 90-year history. Volvo’s original XC60, first introduced in 2008, became the bestselling premium mid-sized SUV in Europe. The XC60 represents about 30% of Volvo’s total global sales since the company was founded (966 000 units in total) and, in April 2017, the number of original XC60s produced will surpass the 1-million mark.  The new XC60 is set to arrive in South Africa in the “second quarter of 2018”, says Volvo SA. Håkan Samuelsson, chief executive of Volvo, said: “Volvo is very proud of its history. The past 90 years have been exciting, but the 10 years left until our 100th anniversary may come to be more exciting as industry focus shifts to autonomous driving, electrification and connectivity. The all-new XC60 is in many ways the embodiment of these trends.” The all-new XC60 is one of the safest cars yet featuring safety technology such as new Oncoming Lane Mitigation system which uses the new Steer Assist function to help mitigate head-on collisions.  Welcome to Auto Baltic Nelspruit At Auto Baltic Nelspruit, you have a wide selection of new, pre-owned and demo cars to choose from. You will also find friendly and accommodating staff eager to assist you. This is true no matter what you’re looking for – be it a test drive in a new Volvo S60, XC60, XC90 or a pre-owned car as well as vehicle financing options, export assistance to Mozambique and Swaziland, service appointments, or assistance figuring out which part you might need.  Service: From inspection and repairs to a simple oil change, Auto Baltic Nelspruit specializes in Top-Tier Volvo Service.
Our team knows the ins and outs of your vehicle because they’re trained to understand everything that makes Volvo models tick. If you’re interested in seeing what we can do for your car, feel free to fill out our online contact form to set up an appointment.  Book a test drive today: Are you keen on getting behind the wheel of one of our amazing new or used vehicles? Book a test drive today.
We will call you back to arrange a time and date that suits your schedule or even bring the car to you. There is nothing like the thrill of stepping into a car that you have had your eye on. Make that first experience even better with one of our knowledgeable team members on hand to show you the ropes.  A heritage of innovation: Their unique heritage forms what Volvo does today and shapes the way they think of the future. In every generation, Volvo has been a pioneer. Express your own individuality by becoming part of the Volvo family whereby all safety of their customers is a priority.  Visit Auto  Baltic Nelspruit at the corner of Lydenburg and Emnotweni Avenue in Riverside Park, Nelspruit. You can also visit their website, like them on Facebook or contact them telephonically on 013 590 5341.