 The City of Cape Town is pulling out all the stops to target water abusers who seemingly have no issue with using a lot of water and paying high tariffs for it. The Province’s dam storage levels were at 37.2% at the beginning of the week with usable water at 27.2%. Collective consumption is at 614 million litres of water per day. This is 114 million litres above the target of 500 million litres. Last week the City introduced level 5 water restrictions and a further increase in water pressure management. They have installed more than 50 water management devices on the properties of water users who are not able to justify excessive usage.  The City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Informal Settlements, Water and Waste Services; and Energy, Councillor Xanthea Limberg said in a statement: ”These water users who have failed to change their behaviour are the ones keeping us above 600 million litres of usage per day and firmly above our essential target of 500 million litres per day. As they are not heeding our calls, we will continue to roll out interventions to force them to lower their consumption.”  As the province forges through their worst recorded drought in history, drought efforts continue to be centred around two key thrusts: to reduce water usage to 500 million litres per day of collective consumption while at the same time bringing on board an additional emergency supply of 500 million litres per day to see the city through as much of summer 2017/18 as possible. Meanwhile the Department of Water and Sanitation’s draft National Norms and Standards for domestic Water and Sanitation has been published for public comments. They released the following statement:  Here is your weekly dam update: The Vaal River System consisting of 14 dams serving mainly Gauteng Sasol and Eskom is at 87%. The Cape Town Dams System consisting of six dams serving mainly City of Cape Town decreased to 35% after starting the week on 37.2%. Here are the latest dam percentages from different provinces throughout the country:  For a more in depth rainfall update, visit WeatherSA or click here. For more information on the water storage levels across the country, visit the DWS site. For a comprehensive drought status report from the Department of Water and Sanitation, click here.