 A 13-year old boy from Benoni died two days ago – allegedly from injuries inflicted by bullies.  In April, a 16-year-old boy from Soshanguve committed suicide after being bullied. Parent, it could have been your child who died. Or a classmate’s death could have been at the hands of your child. According to Psychology Today, bullying is a distinctive pattern of harming and humiliating others. “Bullies are made, not born, and it happens at an early age, if the normal aggression of 2-year-olds isn’t handled well,” states the web site in a report called “Understanding Bullying.” I believe that a poorly raised child is more likely to bully than a child raised properly. Eradicating bullying starts at home. It starts with parents teaching their children manners. This is a lifelong challenge that takes time and devotion. I know this because my parents were very strict. They had to be – I had a very strong will of my own and needed guidance in figuring out wrong and right. They were devoted to raising my brother and me to become respectful adults with good manners. It took years of stern lectures, the odd hiding and countless weeks of being grounded.  It seems to have worked. Sadly, it becomes more evident by the day that other parents were not as devoted as mine. It is astonishing to see how many grown men and women lack manners. This phenomenon is visible in adults from all ages, races and economic classes. These are people to whom the message that rude behaviour will simply not be tolerated was never communicated. Bullying, I was taught, includes being rude towards another person. Here’s how my parents managed to drill it into my head: I remember trying to bully my friends twice. The first incident happened when I was four. A much older boy had upset me. I can’t remember what he said, but I recall picking up a stone and aiming at him. My mother was close by and grabbed me by the arm. What followed was a hiding and a lecture I will never forget.  My second attempt at mistreating a friend came when I was nine. My mother caught me gossiping about my classmate, Thea. She made me apologise to Thea, the friends I had gossiped to and their parents. “A message hit home: If you do not treat others the way you would want to be treated, some serious consequences are coming your way.” As a parent, you owe it to society to NOT raise a bully. If he has bullying tendencies, it is your job to eradicate it. According to various online psychology reports, this starts at home.