 Think of Augrabies Falls National Park and thickets of trees don’t immediately spring to mind. But in 2017, this arid landscape of water and rock may just be the perfect spot for celebrating September’s Arbor Week. Head to the Ebony Trail a few metres out of the main rest camp, and you’ll find yourself within the cool shade of riverine vegetation. In this park you will easily track down 2017’s two trees of the year: the ebony tree (Euclea pseudebenus), named rare tree of the year, and the buffalo thorn (Ziziphus mucronata), the common tree of the year. Set aside about 1.5 hours for the 2.8km Ebony Trail so that you can enjoy all the sights along the way. There are dozens of labelled trees along the way, so you won’t have any trouble identifying them. First and foremost to look out for on the Ebony Trail is the ebony tree, which you will find every few metres along the walkway.  The ebony tree is known for its extreme drought resistance abilities. This water-wise tree thrives on the alluvial plains of the Orange River, where they survive off of occasional bursts of water. This evergreen has large drooping branches, offering shade in an otherwise harsh environment. The tree is traditionally used for toothache and headache, and to create dye. Further along the trail, you will find one or two large and significant buffalo thorns, recognisable from their leathery reddish fruits, and mottled grey bark cracked into small rectangular blocks, revealing a reddish under-surface. This tree can grow as high as 20m tall, and has glossy green leaves that turn yellow in autumn. This tree is very significant in Zulu culture, as it is often used in burial rituals. It is also planted on the graves of chiefs. The tree is also used for treating stomach ailments and chest problems.  While on the Ebony Trail, you’ll experience plenty of frogs, birds, and dassies. On a good day, you may even run into baboons and monkeys along the way, and perhaps even eland. These majestic beasts frequent the wetter areas of the trail.  There are many stepping stones and wooden bridges to cross, so bring a walking stick and wear your walking shoes along. Also keep an eye out for other special plant species, such as the wild tamarisk (Tamrix Usneoides), common spike-thorn (Gymnosporia Herophylla) and Namaqua fig (Ficus cordata). Contact Information 