 Watch your portion sizes. A snack should be less than 200 calories. Make sure you are getting protein and fibre.  Biltong is a tasty and healthy snack, but don’t binge on it due to its often high fat content and its high salt content. It’s a great natural source of protein.  Mix chopped dried fruit, add some raisins, seeds, nuts and coconut, as well as some dark chocolate chips. Portion the mix out into quarter-cup serving sizes. Be sure to toss in some raw almonds, brazil or cashew nuts and some heart-friendly pumpkin and sunflower seeds, which contain lots of omega-3 fatty acids. A portion of trail mix will provide the calories and nutrients necessary to keep your energy up. Combining different seeds and nuts will ensure you ingest a range of minerals and dark chocolate pieces will provide a good shot of antioxidants. Also keep a small trail-mix pack in your handbag for when you are on the move.  Often labelled a “superfood,” they are low in calories and among the most nutrient-dense berries. They contain the highest antioxidant capacity of all commonly consumed fruits and vegetables.  Dark chocolate has more antioxidants than blueberries. Some of these antioxidants can lower blood pressure and protect LDL cholesterol in the blood from becoming oxidised. Studies also show that people who eat dark chocolate five or more times per week are less than half as likely to die from heart disease, compared to people who don’t eat dark chocolate. Some studies show that dark chocolate can improve brain function. Just make sure that the dark chocolate contains at least 70 percent cocoa.  Real, full-fat yogurt is incredibly healthy and loaded with probiotic bacteria that can have a powerful effect on your digestive health. It may even help fight heart disease and obesity. Choose real, full-fat yogurt. Greek and Bulgarian yogurts are excellent. Many of the low fat yogurts are loaded with sugar. Avoid these at all costs. Add dark chocolate or honey and fresh fruit to your yoghurt or better still add a spoon of trail mix.  Nuts are loaded with healthy fats, fibre, protein, vitamin E and magnesium, and are among the best sources of plant-based protein. Studies show that people who eat nuts tend to be healthier, and have a lower risk of various diseases including obesity, heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Almonds Almonds contain lots of healthy fats, fibre, protein, magnesium and vitamin E. The health benefits of almonds include lower blood sugar levels, reduced blood pressure and lower cholesterol levels. They can also reduce hunger and assist with weight loss. Cashews Although cashews are one of the lowest-fibre nuts, they are packed with vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. These include vitamins E, K and B6, along with minerals like copper, phosphorus, zinc, magnesium, iron, and selenium – all of which are important for good health. Brazil nuts Brazil nuts are commonly eaten raw or blanched and are high in protein, fibre, selenium, thiamine, copper and magnesium. In addition to being the best selenium food source in the world, they provide numerous health benefits. One or two brazil nuts per day are all most people need.