MBOMBELA &#8211; The alleged intimidation on accident scenes by tow-truck driver Willem Swart (30) apparently extends beyond professional rivalries to include emergency workers. Swart, a tow-truck driver for Van Wettens Towing, was arrested on Tuesday and appeared in the Nelspruit District Court the same day on charges of intimidation and a case of crimen injuria.According to police spokesman Capt Dawie Pretorius, he was arrested after Marius Kruger from Thompsons Towing and a female paramedic opened cases against him.The paramedic, who wished to stay anonymous for fear of further intimidation, said she told Swart to remove himself from an accident scene on Sunday in Bosch Street as he had no reflector jacket on and no closed shoes.&#8220;He started swearing at me and calling me derogatory names. This is not the first time Swart has performed in front of patients and people at accident scenes.Read more here: N4 blocked as traffic accident kills three&#8220;He has called me names in front of others before. I don&#8217;t know why he still works for Van Wettens, as he is giving them a bad name.&#8221;An eyewitness on the scene confirmed the incident. &#8220;I saw the man from Van Wettens shouting and swearing badly at the woman. He used the F-word a lot.&#8221;Kruger said Swart had been intimidating him at accident scenes for months. &#8220;When any other tow-truck company gets to a scene, we normally share the vehicles. First on the scene normally takes the first, then the second the next vehicle. This is how we operate, as there is enough business for everyone.&#8220;The incident happened when an accident happened in Bosch Street. I arrived first at the scene and then another tow-truck driver arrived. While I was speaking to the motorist, Swart arrived and tried to take the vehicle.&#8221;When he told Swart not to take the car, a verbal argument ensued. The female paramedic treating a patient at the scene asked the men to stop fighting.Kruger said that night, there was another accident on Enos Mabuza Drive.&#8221;When I was driving back to our yard that night, Swart swerved in front of me and tried to block me from getting into our premises. Some other tow-truck drivers joined him and started swearing at me and accusing me of saying things I would never say.&#8221;Watch the video here: VIDEO: Well known tow truck driver arrested for intimidationKruger said his wife came out to see what was happening, and Swart allegedly swore at her as well. &#8220;I was upset about how he spoke to my wife, so instead of losing my cool, I phoned a policeman I know. He spoke to Swart over the phone and told him to stop his nonsense. Afterwards I went to the police to open the case.&#8221;Fellow tow-truck driver Hansie Noortman said he had also seen Swart intimidate Kruger before at accident scenes. &#8220;He has not picked on me, as I am bigger than him.&#8221;Willem Swart.Van Wettens Towing said in a statement that as the oldest operational breakdown company in South Africa, they pride themselves as leaders in the industry and setting the benchmark for quality customer service.&#8220;It is unfortunate that a personal issue between two individuals escalated into an incident our reputable name was drawn into.&#8220;As a qualified First Aid practitioner, Willem Swart has on numerous occasions assisted patients as the first respondent at accident scenes. And he is also actively involved with the Nelspruit Concerned Citizens group, offering assistance and standby to security companies after hours to keep the streets of Mbombela safe.&#8221;Van Wettens will follow all necessary internal disciplinary steps pending the outcome of the investigation.Swart declined to comment about the allegations against him.He was released on a R2 000 bail and will be appearing in court again on October 3.