1. Thou shalt understand that privacy settings will never, ever fully protect thee. Privacy settings are illusory&#8211;you might feel in control of what you post and how it will be used, but it&#8217;s merely a false sense of security.2. Thou shalt not post in extremity of emotion. Powerful emotions, like fury or sadness, cloud our judgment.3. Thou shalt turn the digital cheek to posts that offend thee. There is something in the Internet&#8217;s secret sauce that brings out the snark in many of us. Others take it even further, posting inflammatory content&#8211;especially on religion and politics&#8211;that can be hard to ignore.4. Thou shalt look carefully on thy friends and followers for, to others, they are a reflection of thee. As in real life, character&#8211;and company&#8211;counts online. People who connect with you in virtual spaces, such as Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter, will form conclusions about who you are, in part, by the others they see represented in your digital circles.5. Thou shalt never share racist, sexist, or crude content and then express surprise at the professional and personal fallout. People often think of social media spaces as consequence-free zones and it is not!6. Thou shalt remember that the eyes of strangers may always fall on thy posts. You are only one share, retweet or screenshot away from broader, possibly viral, exposure, no matter how infrequently you post or how secure you believe your privacy settings are.7. As thou judgest others&#8217; conduct online, so thou art judged. Judgment is in our natures&#8211;though not, perhaps, their best part. But have you ever noticed how an online forum gives people the opportunity to amplify what might have been an individual, fleeting thought? Social media helps extend the life of an otherwise brief, uncharitable comment, a pointed anecdote. Keep it light and positive when you have something to say.8. Thou shalt periodically purge thy social accounts. Clean your digital house several times a year. Look through your friends and followers. If they are not people whose faces you can recall or whose voices you know from conversations, consider crossing them off your online lists.9. Courteous and pleasant are thy watchwords. If you&#8217;re a business responding to a Facebook message, it may be tempting to write off (or tell off) a particularly unpleasant customer. Instead, respond professionally and pleasantly.10. Thou shalt recall that personal interactions trump social media. Social media is merely a platform for connection. Use it wisely and purposefully for specific objectives. But remember that it cannot replace the power of an in-person connection. It is nearly always better to talk directly to a customer, look a colleague in the eye, or put down your device and be present in the moment.