SANDTON &#8211; SANParks&#8217; Commercialisation Strategy led to the first SANParks Tourism Summit which was held in the beginning of April. The development of the tourism sector, one of government&#8217;s key priorities in the National Development Plan, took centre stage.As the flagship of SANParks, various proposals were in the offing at the summit for the Kruger National Park.If the following public and private partnerships (PPP) proposals are successful, these projects are on the cards for the KNP:The Phalaborwa Hub Creation of the Phalaborwa Activity Hub on the periphery of the KNP which will include a backpackers&#8217; lodge, mobile tented safari area and tented camp. Development of a picnic-site restaurant and tented accommodation at Nkuhlu.Read more about how you can help Kruger management put a plan together* The building of Letaba Riverside Lodge at which the operator will be allowed to develop a road network and have exclusive traversing rights. The opportunity to develop a 100-bed peripheral safari lodge in close proximity (two kilometres) to Phalaborwa, which will be accessible after gate closing time.More birding camps are on the cards where Kruger legends like the White-headed vulture may be seen. Photograph: Andre Botha Tshokwane Tent Birding Camp which will house 15 tents with a maximum of 30 beds. The construction of Shangoni Cultural Camp which will consist of a 30 beds. It will be accessible after gate closing time and in close proximity to the new Shangoni Gate (five kilometres).READ how a new ten year plan for Kruger will be developed The upgrading of Phabeni Education and Summer Camp which will entail the managing of an education centre at an existing site near Phabeni Gate.The proposal is that a rustic camp be developed in baobab heartland, Pafuri: The brief is for a camp on stilts that will have zero impact on the environment. There is also an opportunity to create a ranger academy for guests to national parks.READ about more KNP and SANParks PPP projects Mobile spas or wellness centres in close proximity to a variety of camps. Mobile tented safari experiences (two opportunities for operators). Two unfenced camps within the KNP tree canopy. Each camp will have 15 tree houses. Activities like morning drives, day walks, mountain biking and bird talks will be outsourced.