1. Embrace the season transitionOne of the biggest worries about winter is not being able to keep your house warm enough this may include making sure the windows are sealed, checking the heating systems or giving your home a winter update. Sheet Street is helping you gear up in style for this winter, with their range of soft and warm accessories. Adding different pillows and blankets to a room can inspire a warm atmosphere and create the perfect set up for a warm and snug winter. Create a sanctuary by layering your favourite blankets and throws on your bed. Not only will it keep you warm, but it will feel cosy too.2. Add a pop of Winter colour and warmthBeat the winter blues by adding a pop of warm colour. Warm colours fall within the reds, yellows, browns and orange, purples and greens are neutral colours that can also add to the warmth of a room visually. These bright throws in contrasting colours will instantly warm up a neutral bed or couch. Choose accent pillows and don t be afraid to experiment with bold patterns and colours for those hibernating months.3. Add texture to warm up the roomMake delicate fabrics and gentle materials a key accessory to your winter d cor- these add an air of class to a room and can transform a frigid and dull spaces into a sanctuary of comfort. Choose from an assortment of flannel, quilts and faux fur blankets. A faux fur blanket or pillow not only adds texture and creates a luxurious feel but is so soft and cosy that you won t want to leave home. Combine pillows with different textures and prints to instantly update your sofa or bed. By covering yourself with a blanket you will not only keep yourself warm, but you will reduce having to use heaters which will save you money in the long run.Inspired to make this chilly season your #WarmestWinter? Then visit Sheet Street to indulge your inner interior decorator, or follow their Facebook page and Twitter for more great tips! Don t forget to check out the Sheet Street Winter catalogue below:Don&#8217;t miss out on the Sheet Street Winter Catalogue&nbsp;&nbsp;