MBOMBELA &#8211; Municipal spokesman, Mr Joseph Ngala, confirmed this week that the rank will not become operational until the City of Mbombela has gone live with its Integrated Public Transport Network (IPTN).A public-participation process has to be followed before that can happen and it is unclear when the process will be finalised.Also read: Frustration at transport hub standstillLowvelder first reported on the slow progress in construction of the terminus, which is part of a multimillion-rand programme to develop a public-transport hub in the Mbombela CBD, in November.Construction began in August 2014 and was expected to be completed a year later. Since then, the municipality has provided several other completion dates in 2017 which have not been met. Infographic: Elb MeyerDA caucus leader in council, Mr Steven Schormann, said the public-participation process included consultation with taxi associations, commuters and the current landlord.The City of Mbombela must ensure that all the contractors fulfil their duty to the people, who rely on the transport network in their daily lives. This taxi rank is paramount to that.&#8221;The situation has also outraged members of the business community. Mr Fred Kinnear said his massive expansion of Canary Walk Mall and Office Park adjacent to the &#8220;taxi rank&#8221;, was done specifically with the aim of serving the increased fleet the IPTN would bring to the area. He claims the municipality has been leading them by the nose for months, promising the project would be finished on several dates in 2016 and 2017.The latest reason for the delay, which was set at the end of March, was that the roof sheeting had not been delivered on time.&#8220;The sheets needed to be cranked before being delivered on site. (They) were supposed to be delivered on April 13. It has been confirmed that they will be delivered on April 19 and 20. Once delivered, the sheeting work will take seven days and by April 26, the sheeting will be completed,&#8221; Ngala told Lowvelder.Also read: Municipality s pilot project for overtime not council-approvedHe added that although the current contract will complete its work, there needs to be a further contract which will deal with operational infrastructure such as the sitting rails, CCTV and gantries for information. &#8220;All these were not part of the current contract,&#8221; Ngala concluded.