Illegal mining pentalogy: Zama zamas bodies dumped on road (Part 1) BARBERTON &#8211; The method zama zamas use to mine for gold at the old Fortuna Mine and Rimers Creek is a disaster waiting to happen.These areas are located on the slopes of the mountains, a stone&#8217;s throw from residential houses. &#8220;One big flash flood and houses will be buried under the mining rubble flushed down the slopes,&#8221; Lowvelder was told.During its investigation, Lowvelder came across a sense of uncertainty and fear in the town regarding the alarming level of lawlessness that prevails.People interviewed about the situation asked not to be named for fear of their lives.Allegations were made of corrupt policemen colluding and assisting illegal miners in their search for gold.ALSO READ: Explosive info on Lily emergesLowvelder is in possession of a video of a police van and a private vehicle parked on a remote dirt road.According to a reliable source, he videotaped the incident while witnessing two bags of gold ore being handed over by two illegal miners to police officials and loaded into the van.Concern has also been expressed that Sheba Mine may face the same fate as Lily Mine if illegal miners manage to get to the crown pillar and start to extract gold from it.But, Coenie Lock, Group Security manager, Pan African Resources, said the illegal miners are not close to the main pillars and &#8220;we guard those areas very closely.&#8221;Once upon a time a scenic hiking trail in the beautiful surroundings of the Barberton mountains. Today a no-go area, thanks to the lawless activites of the Zama Zama. Schoolboys in Barberton play truant during the week to be cheap child labour for illegal miners. Louisville is a safe haven from where crime syndicates plan and execute their activities. This includes illegal mining, dealing in drugs, illegal weapons and rhino horns. One of the country&#8217;s main rhino-horn smuggling kingpins is an active illegal miner and known to mine security. Corrupt mine security guards escort and assist in the safe passage of illegal miners into Sheba Mine on a daily basis. Lowvelder is in possession of a taped conversation in which an undercover agent negotiates a price with a team leader of SSG Security to take his syndicate of miners down the mine. It is believed that many members of the community living in the area are either involved in illegal mining or assist illegal miners with their activities.ALSO READ: Illegal mining was rife months before Lily collapse Provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, told Lowvelder that they were not aware of any corruption happening between the police and the illegal miners.He urged the community to report matters to them, instead of &#8220;making wild allegations&#8221;. In response to the community&#8217;s fears, he said they can contact him on 082 462 0804.Illegal mining pentalogy: Undercover agent reveals security horror (Part 3) Illegal mining pentalogy: Children mine for illegal gold (Part 4) Illegal mining pentalogy: Crime syndicates run wild (Part 5)