GRASKOP &#8211; The development will offer yet another amazing tourism experience on the Panorama Route. For ages developers have been finding innovative ways to share the magic of the heavenly scenery in this corner of South Africa with visitors, and the new glass lift is the most ground-breaking yet.The glass elevator will be the main attraction at Graskop Gorge Adventure Centre, which will cost in excess of R40 million to construct. It is also the first development of its kind in Africa. Visitors will be transported into a pristine forest environment.ALSO READ: Tracing the old Graskop LineThe glass elevator will offer a 360-degree view of the gorge, waterfall, trees, birds and sky. The centre will incorporate a restaurant, bar and shops at the top of the gorge, a children&#8217;s play area and lookout points.Ground was broken earlier this month. The centre is expected to open for business in the fourth quarter of this year. Hamilton-Fynch has been contracted to provide environment interpretation boards.&#8220;The project is an opportunity to explain the origin of the Blyde River Canyon, the biodiversity significance of our forests and the smaller, generally unappreciated organisms that live there, and the importance of the escarpment catchment to water supplies for communities and wildlife downstream, all the way to the Indian Ocean,&#8221; said Mr Karl Lane from Hamilton-Fynch. The development is being done by the Graskop Gorge Lift Company, owned by Lowveld businessmen Mesrrs Oupa Pilane, James Sheard and Campbell Scott.At the site of Mpumalanga s next big tourism development: Ms Xolisile Ntanzi, senior investment associate, National Empowerment Fund; Clr Idos Mokoena, chief whip, Thaba Chweu Local Municipality; Ms Sindiswa Mathebula, chief executive officer, Thaba Chweu Local Economic Development Agency; Clr Selina Mashigo-Sekgobela, executive mayor, Thaba Chweu Local Municipality; Mr James Sheard, investor, Graskop Gorge Lift Company; Clr Sandile Shongwe, ward councillor, Thaba Chweu Local Municipality; Mr Oupa Pilane, investor, Graskop Gorge Lift Company; Ms Nosidima Dana, project co-ordinator, National Empowerment Fund; and Mr Campbell Scott, investor, Graskop Gorge Lift Company.Pilane is the president of the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism and a well-known figure in the province, while Sheard and Scott developed the Long Tom Toboggan and Skyway Trails, respectively. The adventure centre is a public-private partnership with the Thaba Chweu Local Municipality through its local economic development agency, Thaleda. The National Empowerment Fund is a shareholder. What makes the development extra special is its commitment to not only preserve the environment, but educate visitors on its uniqueness.ALSO READ: A massive upgrade for GraskopAn elevated forest walkway will be built at the bottom of the gorge. It will have two suspension bridges that cross the river and will include interpretation boards.The second phase of the project will include a 40-bed boutique hotel.