WHITE RIVER &#8211; Starting off from Laguna Bar &amp; Grill, this year&#8217;s event was the fifth of its kind and the second held locally. It originated in April 2013 and has grown in leaps and bounds with the aim of raising funds and awareness in aid of Care for Wild Africa Sanctuary.The bikers gathered in their droves, and after a few heart-and-toe-warming dops in the form of coffee, brandy and the odd OBS, the day was under way. The earth shuddered and the road roared to life when those bikes started up.As they filed out, massive machines of awesome power growling their pleasure at being free to ride, even the hardest heart surely must have been moved by the thrill of it all. This is the stuff legends are made of, a show of might and power in the face of adversity, defying the decimation of our wildlife. Dogs on the Run is an important cog in the fight against rhino poaching locally. Not only is the aid given to Care for Wild invaluable as all funds raised go to the care and upkeep of the orphaned rhinos, but raising public awareness against poaching is a large part of what these intrepid bikers do.This year the riders kicked off on Saturday morning and headed to Mbombela to meet up with more bikers, and from there to the mist and mystery of Kaapsehoop for breakfast. From this village it was off to Care for Wild, where the visitors got to meet the orphaned rhinos and listen to a short presentation on the sanctuary by founder Petronel Nieuwoudt. Care for Wild started 15 years ago with the aim of caring for and rehabilitating a range of wildlife, and because the level of poaching was not as horrific back then, fewer rhinos were fostered at the centre. Only a select few are privileged enough to visit the sanctuary and interact with these magnificent animals.The bikers were in awe and humbled by their beauty and presence.&#8220;How anyone can harm them in any way is just beyond me,&#8221; one participant said sadly. Care for Wild is aiming for additional land so as to enable it to secure a viable breeding population, preserving this majestic species &#8211; on the brink of extinction &#8211; for the future.Sunday&#8217;s itinerary was much the same, apart from a slight change of scenery. Instead of heading up the mountain to Kaapsehoop, the road taken by the travellers led to the beautiful hills and forests towards Hazyview where refreshments were enjoyed in the quaint and charming town of Sabie, a well-known stopover for bikers.The road is also a favourite for those on two wheels because the tempting and tempestuous twists and turns lead them through breathtaking scenery and immense sweeping vistas of rolling hills. From there it was back to White River for a relaxing afternoon and evening of good music with local bands Backstage, Goat &#8216;n Hare, DJ Blackula, The Acoustics, and Mr Brightside belting out their particular brand of musical talent. Along with the good food, good company and the famous Lowveld hospitality and scenery, the occasion was a runaway success. There were more than 90 entries on Saturday and Sunday resulted in almost 110. Around R30 000 was raised, not including the online auction for the rhino painting by Nicolette Latsky. There is no denying that this was the perfect end to a weekend of adventure, made all the better by it being in aid of such a worthy cause &#8211; the fight against poaching and to save the rhinos.