MBOMBELA &#8211; Travellers commuting to Barberton and Hazyview were met with mayhem on the roads the past three days, as taxi associations blocked the R40.Yesterday, the R40/R538 intersection in Hazyview was blocked, preventing entry to the town, as the protesting taxi drivers became aggressive. They are blocking the road with trucks and taxis, an eyewitness said.Protesters armed with sticks and pangas. It is understood that the reason was a dispute between White Hazy and Mkhuhlu Taxi Associations over routes and stands.The same issues were raised by the taxi drivers in Barberton. Taxi drivers continued to block roads in town yesterday morning, over a dispute over routes. The taxis first blocked the R40 leading to Mbombela on Wednesday. They parked their vehicles and burnt tyres on the road.Taxi drivers barricaded the intersection that lead to Badplaas, Barberton and the R40. Their main issue is that they want to be in charge of transporting passengers from Barberton to Nelspruit and Badplaas, and back to Barberton. At the moment, these routes are not solely theirs, and rival associations transport passengers. The protest took place close to Mpumalanga Premier Mr David Mabuza&#8217;s house. The office of the premier confirmed that Mabuza s safety was not threatened by the protest action near his home. It is not unheard of for politicians homes to be burnt down in protest.READ MORE: Premier is safe after protestMabuza s spokesman Mr Zibonele Mncwango told Lowvelder that he made it safely to work on Wednesday. Our understanding is that the protest was not necessarily in front of his house. Law enforcement handled the situation,&#8221; he said. The police shot rubber bullets at the protesters and employed teargas to disperse them. The drivers ran off, abandoning their vehicles on the road. They returned and eventually cleared the road, after negotiations with the police.According to the taxi drivers they had previously raised their issues with the executive mayor of City of Mbombela Local Municipality and had several meetings with him. They claim that they only received empty promises. Municipality spokesman Mr Jospeh Ngala admitted on Wednesday that meetings between the taxi associations and other stakeholders had taken place in the past. It is a complicated situation as there have been disputes over routes and permits and even allegations of fraudulent permits. He confirmed the issues in both towns were similar. A meeting was held in Mbombela on Wednesday afternoon between the municipality, taxi associations and the provincial Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport (DPWRT). The meeting was continued on Thursday morning. The newspaper was requested to leave the meeting as it was closed, to allow all stakeholders to feel free to express themselves. At the time of going to press, the outcome thereof was not yet known. In the meantime, motorists had to rely on alternative routes to get around. The premier encouraged taxi drivers not to infringe on other people s rights. &#8220;When they barricade the road with burning tyres, people fear for their lives and they cannot use the road freely, Mncwango concluded.