With 2017 upon us, WatchGuard s Chief Technology officer, Corey Nachreiner, has released his predictions as to what threats we can anticipate for the year ahead.1. Fast-acting Ransomworms will spread threats faster than ever. 2. Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) will be exploited. 3. Botnet zombies will primarily target IoTs (Internet of Things). 4. In 2017, we will see civilian casualties in the Cyber Cold War. 5. Under siege by cyber criminals, SMBs* turn to small MSSPs** for cyber security. 6. Increased biometrics usage hides continued credential insecurity; passwords are not really gone. 7. Attackers start leveraging machine learning and Artificial Intelligence (AI) to improve malware and attacks.Cyber-attacks will continue to be a major threat to businesses in 2017 and beyond. Staying educated on the latest InfoSec threats and solutions is the best way to improve your defences.*In computer networking, Server Message Block (SMB) , is mainly used for providing shared access to files, printers, and serial ports and miscellaneous communications between nodes on a network.**An MSSP (managed security service provider) is an Internet service provider (ISP) that provides an organisation with network security management, which may include virus blocking, spam blocking, intrusion detection, firewalls, and so on.For your information: About WatchGuard Technologies, Inc. WatchGuard Technologies, Inc. is a global leader in network security, providing best-in-class Unified Threat Management, Next Generation Firewall, secure Wi-Fi, and network intelligence products and services to more than 75 000 customers worldwide. The company s mission is to make enterprise-grade security accessible to companies of all types and sizes through simplicity, making WatchGuard and ideal solution for Distributed Enterprises and SMBs. WatchGuard is headquartered in Seattle, Washington, with offices throughout North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Latin America.About Robinson Distribution Robinson Distribution specialises in business critical solutions for South Africa and Africa. They offer a selection of only the best solutions from reputable suppliers with the ability to provide excellent service. Robinson Distribution has established themselves as one of the top distribution companies in South Africa. Visit Robinson Distribution s website for more information.&nbsp;