MBOMBELA &#8211; Author and journalist, Bridget Hilton-Barber will be Lowvelder&#8217;s first Pen in my Hand guest for 2017 to discuss her book, Student Comrade Prisoner Spy. Pen in my Hand takes place on Thursday January 26. Join us at Bargain Books, I&#8217;langa Mall at 17:30 for 18:00 for a glass of wine and what promises to be a most interesting evening. Please RSVP to Linda Pieters at marketing@lowvelder.co.za or Philippa Francis at philippa@lowvelder.co.za.Also read: Author offers chilling account of apartheid yearsHere is an extract from the memoir: Her blue Kadett eventually pulls up, its tyres grinding on the crushed stone. Olivia is wearing sunglasses, and she steps out of the car and tells us more about what happened after Chris s house was firebombed. He got me out of bed at midnight, maybe one in the morning to take Miseka to hospital. You must know how I m feeling this morning. I don t think she s going to make it. She s what? Melissa and I say in horrified unison. I don t think she will live, says Olivia.Hilton-Barber realised after her time in detention that one of her best friends, Olivia Forsyth, was a spy for the security police. Come, let s go. Melissa opens the front door of the car, looks at the back seat and gasps, What? What s that stuff? Olivia says, Blood. Ja, that stuff s to soak up the blood. Whose blood? Melissa gags, and I see the grey fabric coated in a chalky powder that almost &#8211; but not quite &#8211; hides a seeping brown stain. And around it, burnt flesh, curled at the edges, like scattered cornflakes. I stare incomprehensibly. And Olivia starts humming. She starts fucking humming.Melissa and I are beyond shocked and we drive in silence to the offices. I am in the back, staring out the window, sitting as far away from the chalky bloody mess with its sickly-sweet smell. Melissa catches my eye in the mirror. She looks horrified, deeply disturbed. We are driving in a car in which a burning woman was taken to hospital to die.Wordlessly, we go to the upstairs offices of Rhodeo and make coffee, huddling together. Did you hear what happened to Chris and Miseka? Ray arrives with Roelien and Shelley. This is horrific, I can t believe they re taking it to this level. No. I just can t, Shelley is crying, distraught. Apparently she won t make it &#8211; Miseka. Ja, I was there, says Olivia, it was so terrible. She rummages in her handbag and finds a pack of cigarettes. Offers them around, lights up. We all just sit there, quite unable to work. Smoking, silent. So strange, a person we know is dying, perhaps has already died.A little later, Roland arrives. He looks completely dishevelled. Devastated. He walks in quietly, sits in a chair and hangs his head in silence for about 10 minutes. I&#8217;m not sure if he&#8217;s crying, I can&#8217;t see his face. So, I get there, he finally says, sitting up. So, I drive in Andr s car and I get there to Chris s place and there s fire and smoke and chaos and the cops are there, and Miseka is (hurt), like really badly burnt, and Priscilla and Olivia have managed to get her into the back of Olivia s car, her flesh is sliding off her, and Priscilla goes with her. And I take Chris, but when we get to the hospital, the place is crawling with Branch (security police). Bridget Hilton-Barber.His eyes, full of disbelief, flick from one face to another.There are guys in the parking lot and guys in the admissions, so I just leave Chris in the car &#8211; who s in (absolute) agony and shocked (beyond belief) &#8211; and I just know, I mean they&#8217;ll just detain him if he gets admitted and then he&#8217;ll disappear or something, he stifles a sob, and it was fucking terrifying. Aghast, we all stare at him. They tried to arrest me too, for trespassing on hospital premises or something (ridiculous), he says, so I just took Chris and we found a private doctor through the Black Sash phew, she s gonna die, you know, there s no chance she ll survive. He puts his face in his hands and his shoulders shake and Melissa and I make him coffee and Olivia gets up and arranges stuff on the tables and starts fiddling with the light tables. Autumn sun falls through the giant glass windows that overlook the perfectly manicured green sports fields.It&#8217;s a glorious day. Perfectly normal. We can hear the thwack of a ball against a bat; the whirr-whirr of the pigeons on the window ledge. I am terrified and revolted. I cannot shake off the images of the burnt flesh. And we still have to drive home in that car again, Olivia still has to drop Melissa and me back at the house, we&#8217;ll have to drive in that car again.This is my first direct encounter with an apartheid atrocity. Not that we name it yet. I am just a 21-year-old honours student at Rhodes University in Grahamstown in the Eastern Cape, in the eye of the political storm that is gripping the country.Not long after this, Roland is detained. He spends a few nights in the Grahamstown mortuary adjoining the police station, with severe bronchitis and a couple of corpses for company. And then two weeks at the PE prison in North End known as the Rooi Hel &#8211; a red-brick horror, a red hell.About six weeks later, I see Chris at the SACHED offices with Louise Vale. He is a ghost, a shadow, he can barely speak, one arm is still bandaged, and his fingers are thick and scarred pink. But his soul is still on fire, I can see, his eyes are full of flames. My heart is so sad.Also read: Pen in my Hand: Author to share her memoir with Mbombela