MBOMBELA &#8211; Benjamin Franklin once said: In wine, there is wisdom, in beer, there is freedom. In water, there is bacteria. Do the wise thing, and join Wellington Wines in a wine tasting on Friday 27 January at Zest, or 28 January at the Buffel Hotel in Hectorspruit, when they will be launching their W-range. Wellington Wines, a collaboration of Bovlei Cellar, Wamakersvalley and Wellington Wine, is launching a range specifically made with the South African market in mind. This easy-drinking, fruit-driven, unpretentious wine is well received with all kinds of wine drinkers. The young wine connoisseur, still exploring with cultivars, will enjoy the sparkling Moscato, the fruity but dry Sauvignon Blanc, and will find the Cabernet Sauvignon a perfect companion next to the fire, with or without other company.This range is a range true to the Wellington terroir, capturing Wellington as a region in a bottle. It includes both the terroir and the people that make the region unique. Being one of the youngest wine regions, only a region of origin since 2013, it gives us great pride to have been announced as best terroir in the national Novar Terroir awards for a second time. While any wine from the Wellington region is of outstanding quality, we are excited about the W-range. The awards are rolling in, but, more importantly, regular wine drinkers enjoy the wine, says marketing manager, Ms Xania van der Merwe.&#8220;Wellington Wines started their 111th harvest season this week amidst devastating fires. This tragedy once again showed what makes the region unique: its people. Wellington Wines served as a gathering ground for supplies in support of the firemen and volunteers. Once again proving how a community who takes hands can make a difference. For this reason, we don t want people to see us a &#8216;just another winery&#8217;, but instead, to be seen as the region with a heart for people. All funds generated through tastings on the 28th will be donated to the team of people working endlessly to increase the safety of the community.&#8221;Stockists interested in listing these wines can contact marlyn.mostert@bidfood.co.za.Also read: Private-schools kick off 2017 Also read: Your boss and your depression. What you must know.