Angel-Grams.com was developed by a South African PhD student. A year after a deceased loved one has passed, it allows you to reconnect with them for one last time. This is not a seance or a psychic website, but a space where living users may store a final goodbye message. This message will be delivered to the friends and family, after the user&#8217;s death.What is Angel-grams.com? If you could speak to your loved ones after you die, what would your last words be? With Angel-grams.com, the shock of an unexpected death means never having to leave things unsaid. By recording your final farewell messages you will be able to leave a piece of yourself behind, to help your grieving loved ones find strength and closure after your passing. You can send love, make amends, or even confess your sins in total confidence knowing that in the event of your death, you will still be able to reach out to your loved ones as they mourn you. You can also create Angel-GRAMS for your ageing parents or those who may be terminally ill so that you have a piece of them to hold onto long after they are gone.How it Works? Designed around a stringent time delay system users can store their final messages of love and encouragement by simply uploading their videos or typing in a message. Once your messages are stored, your personal vault is locked and can only be activated if you fail to check-in to your account for a year. The system reads your inactivity as either having: *Passed on, died unexpectedly/tragically/without closure or *Become permanently medically incapacitated such as Alzheimer&#8217;s patients/coma or *An unexplained and prolonged disappearance that prevents you from contacting your loved ones like kidnapping/abductions/murder. Your stored Angel-GRAMS are then released to the loved ones that you have nominated, a year after your death.Meryl M, PhD student at the Durban University of Technology and founder of Angel-grams.com had this to say, &#8220;My Dad died unexpectedly. He was happy and healthy the day before and the next morning an undiagnosed heart attack claimed his life. I felt so cheated! There were so many things left unsaid, so many regrets and regardless of the number of photos or home videos I looked at, I still yearned to have that same personal connection that we once shared. I just wanted him to look at me again, to speak to me, just one last time. My greatest fear as a parent is that I will suddenly and unexpectedly die, leaving my kids and husband to face life without me. Angel-grams.com allows me to leave a part of myself behind.&#8221;How are Angel-GRAMS different to Your Last Will and Testament, Social Media sites like FaceBook and home videos and photographs? Your Angel-GRAMS are your own personal messages that you leave directly to your beneficiaries. It is not a legally binding contract but rather an emotional and heartfelt farewell message. It is your final gift that will enable you to reconnect with those close to you. Home videos and photographs, however memorable it may be, only captures a single abstract event or a memory-a snapshot. When you lose a loved one, you lose the personal connection you share and the face to face interaction of just being present in each others lives. When you receive an Angel-Gram you receive the gift of having your departed loved one, look and speak directly to you again. It is a priceless encounter!&nbsp;Enquiries: Please email angels@angel-grams.com.Also read: Man run over with car &#8211; twicePress release by Angel-Grams.com.