Ford South Africa announced that a voluntary safety recall for all Kuga&#8217;s 1.6l vehicles has been issued. On Monday the Ford stated that Kuga models equipped with the 1.6-litre engine should be taken to a dealership to address an engine overheating condition that could cause a fire. A total of 4,556 vehicles are affected by this safety recall in South Africa, and were built between December 2012 and February 2014. Ford Kuga models with 1.5-litre and 2.0-litre engines are not affected.Which vehicles are covered: The safety recall is limited to 1.6l Kugas that were manufactured between December 2012 to February 2014. Other Kugas such as the 1.5l and 2l are not affected. All vehicles affected, including all those that were checked must be taken to a Ford dealership.What you need to do: If any 1.6l owners notice any indication that the engine may be overheating, or sees warnings on the on-board computer panel, pull over, switch the engine off and ensure all occupants are outside the car as soon as possible. Do not open the bonnet. Call emergency services, then Ford roadside assistance on 0861 150 250.READ MORE: Volkswagen to recall around 50 000 cars in ChinaHow will customers be compensated? With assistance from a dealership, car owners will be given courtesy vehicles.Recall stages: Stage one: Stage one will involve replacing all affected components on the cooling system. Conducting an oil leak check on the cylinder head. Verifying and updating the software.Stage two: After stage one is completed, Ford will make the cooling system even more robust. This stage will also include further changes to parts that were previously checked.Every effort is being made to minimize inconvenience, and Ford reassures customers that their safety is their top priority.Ford committed to keeping their customers mobile. Should a customer experience any engine overheating problem with their 1.6 Kuga, or delays in the repair due to a shortage of parts, arrangements will be made through the nearest Ford dealer and Ford Customer Service to provide a courtesy car while the vehicle is repaired.Any customer concerns or queries can be directed to Ford Customer Service at 0860 011 022.