CAPE TOWN &#8211; Causing quite the stir in the industry in only a few months, this young company from Cape Town focuses on buying and selling authentic used luxury goods that are still in great condition. Following the trends and making sure to always look stylish is not always easy and can quickly get very expensive. This is where Luke Calitz from Luxity saw an opportunity to step in and make everyone s lives more convenient and make them feel like a million bucks.The Luxity online boutique provides access to some of the world s most coveted brands, ranging from designer handbags, clutches, wallets and purses as well as other leather accessories, premium high heels and flats, high-end scarves, luxury sunglasses, and much more. We pride ourselves in offering only 100 per cent authentic luxury items that are still in excellent condition. At Luxity we take authentication extremely seriously and offer a full money back guarantee, should you ever prove that we sold you a fake or counterfeit item, explains Luke Calitz, owner of Luxity. Going to an actual second hand store is not always the most pleasant of experiences and you never know what they might have in stock. On the other hand, going through a platform such as Gumtree or OLX might result in a counterfeit product. With Luxity, our customers can browse from the safety and convenience of their homes, pay online and have a courier deliver a guaranteed authentic luxury item to their door in just a few days. This added value of feeling safe and giving them ease of mind has led to many customers coming again and again.Also read: South African website that sends loved ones a message from the deadLuxity s social media channels keep customers up to date on new arrivals, which are all listed at their online boutique (www.luxity.co.za) where every item can be purchased with just few simple clicks. To ensure that everybody can afford luxury, we offer our customers an interest free layby option where they can pay off their purchase within two months in as many instalments as they wish, Luke explains further.Luxity does not only cater to those with a desire to buy designer brands, but also to everyone who wants to sell designer luxury goods whether it is to create space in the closet, by getting rid of items that do not fit or have never been worn. Like with their customers, Luxity strives to make the user experience as easy and convenient as possible: First, images and information are uploaded on the website. After Luxity s experienced buying team checks and authenticates the item(s), the seller will be presented with the choice to either accept an immediate cash buyout, a store credit, or the option to list an item on consignment. All of this often takes place within 24-48 hours.In only four months this Cape Town based start-up has managed to stir up the second hand market, providing a safe, reliable and trusted service to customers and sellers alike.*Press release by Luxity