The issue of land redistribution is a highly sensitive matter which cuts across many generations, particularly in rural areas. Government has also made great strides in addressing land redistribution, which remains a top priority for Government 23 years after the dawn of democracy.Therefore political parties should refrain from mobilising communities to occupy land illegally, hence the arrest of EFF leader in the province, Collen Sedibe, is welcomed as it sends messages to communities that lawlessness will not be tolerated in the province.READ MORE: PHOTOS: The land the EFF plans to invadeThis is according to Mpumalanga Community Safety, Security and Liaison MEC, Pat Ngomane, who spoke following the arrest of Sedibe and his accomplice by the police on Sunday, 29 January 2017.It is the second time in less than six months that EFF leader, Collen Sedibe has been arrested. Here he is seen with Cyril Chuene who was also arrested.Sedibe and his accomplice were arrested for allegedly inciting public violence. It is alleged that Sedibe has called on those looking for residential stands to come with their necessary tools in order to occupy land near Hillsview. Community members seems to have taken the call made by Sedibe to heart as they showed up on Sunday unaware that the City of Mbombela Local Municipality has already opened a case at Nelspruit Police Station as soon as the free residential stands message surfaced on social media.READ MORE: SAPS deployed at planned EFF land invasionNgomane says the message to incite people into illegal occupation of land is not only barbaric, but is highly irresponsible because those who claim to be leaders should be exemplary by not encouraging hooliganism. He says true leaders will instead educate their followers to abide by the laws, policies and procedures with regard to land redistribution. Ngomane has deplored Sedibe and those who attempted to occupy land illegally saying communities should not allow any persons to take advantage of their vulnerability by agreeing to do wrong things.Local MEC, Pat Ngomane, says that illegal activities relating to land grabs will not be tolerated We cannot allow any backwardness to prevail with regard to land. We know how sensitive the issue of land is but those in position of leadership should understand the sensitivity around the issue of land, Ngomane says. He has further applauded the police for restoring order and swiftly bringing to book both Sedibe and his accomplice and has further called on communities not to be misled by those who are taking advantage of their genuine needs.READ MORE: ARRESTED: Two EFF members in cells for land invasion plansThe two suspects appeared in Nelspruit Magistrate s Court on Monday 30 January 2017 on charges of trespassing, incitement to public violence and a charge depicted under the Gathering s Act. They have since been released on R500 bail each. They will appear in court on 20 February 2017 again.The area where the planned invasion was to take place is indicated in red. It is in the White River/Hillsview area.Images courtesy of Helene Eloff