MBOMBELA &#8211; Eskom reiterated yesterday that it intended to go ahead with the proposed cuts to Nelsriver, Delta, Mbombela Stadium and White River.All the properties supplied by these bulk points will have their power switched off from 06:00 to 08:00 and 17:00 to 19:30 on weekdays, and 08:30 to 11:00 and 15:00 to on 17:30 over weekends.A number of municipalities elsewhere made payment arangements over the weekend, but the power utility went ahead with power cuts in North West municipalities yesterday. The City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) is one of six municipalities in Mpumalanga which will be affected by the power cuts from January 23.A must-read: Eskom to go ahead with power cutsCMLM spokesman, Mr Joseph Ngala, said on social media last week that the municipality had already made payment arrangements with Eskom, but Eskom said no agreement had been signed, and it will continue with the planned interruption.Chief operating officer of the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT), Ms Linda Grimbeek, said business was demanding that the municipality publish which areas or major account holders are in arrears and force them to pay their accounts.If not, their electricity should be cut, not the ones who are paying. KLCBT undertook to monitor progress in this regard and assist the city where appropriate,&#8221; she said.Stabilis accountant, Mr Henri Pieters, agreed that people who were paying were being punished. &#8220;It is the goose that lays the golden egg that is being slaughtered.&#8221;Grimbeek said the impact on business and tourism will be devastating, &#8220;not to mention the traffic congestion and accidents that will result during peak hours when electricity will be off&#8221;.&#8220;The chamber is ensuring there are workable contingency plans in place in case Eskom does not give the municipality an extension on the payment date,&#8221; she said.According to Grimbeek, it was established that R100 million was paid to Eskom during early December, against the R113 million that was owed at the time.&#8220;Another month passed and the total amount in arrears is currently R70 million,&#8221; she said.Also read: Eskom to start with Mbombela power cutsShe added that CMLM asked for an extension until March to pay, as little credit control is done during the holiday season and it needs time to recover its cash flow. Eskom is expected to respond between today and Friday. eMalahleni, Mkhondo, Lekwa, Msukaligwa and Chief Albert Luthuli are also to be affected from Monday.Mr Steve Schormann, DA leader in the municipality, confirmed the debt was due to money CMLM had counted on receiving, but did not. National Treasury paid it approximately R50 million less than expected, as a part of its equitable share, and it received R20 million less than expected from consumers in December.Households are expected to be affected more by the cuts than businesses. Yet, Mr Armand van der Merwe, CEO of Lowveld Hospital, pointed out that the greatest implication for the institution was having to run two generators at all times: a main one and a backup. Should one fail, they have to stop operating, as they need a backup at all times. &#8220;This will cost us thousands of rand in diesel a week,&#8221; he said.&#8220;The biggest problem is that we have extremely sensitive equipment. When the power fails, that momentary dip easily damages machines. There is always damage.&#8221; Mr Kobus Jacobs of Sonpark Centre called it a sad situation and that restaurants in the complex will be adversely affected.&#8220;Although we have generators, it will obviously cost much more to run them at regular intervals than normal electricity supply costs,&#8221; Jacobs told Lowvelder.Also read: DA explains Eskom crisisSchorman added that Eskom&#8217;s agreements with municipalities are unfair. CMLM is billed on the 30th day of each month, and is expected to pay by the 15th of the next. Following that deadline, putative interest is charged.How can Mbombela bill people and pay in that time? It is a bad contract and Eskom is not looking to solve the problem. They are making money for jam,&#8221; he said.Schormann added that Mbombela and the former Umjindi have applied to the National Energy Regulator of South Africa to use alternative suppliers, and CMLM is actively looking for alternatives.Since the news of the possible cut broke on Thursday, the municipality had not answered the newspaper&#8217;s questions about why they hadn&#8217;t paid, how it was planning to avert a crisis, how much it was owed by debtors, which areas in the municipality underpaid and what plans it had to improve collections.According to Eskom To avoid supply interruptions, municipalities need to: Make a cash payment as negotiated with each municipality Provide a written undertaking in the form of a council resolution that current accounts will be honoured going forward Produce a payment plan for the arrears supported by a council resolution.