LYDENBURG &#8211; A devastated mother had to retrieve her son from a puddle in town on Friday, after he was apparently electrocuted. The 10-year-old Jaden Landsberg died in hospital after he rode his bike through a pool containing a live municipal electrical wire.Jaden was riding with friends on the corner of Rivier and Lombaard streets.According to witnesses, his friends said they were unable to retrieve him from the puddle as the water &#8220;shocked them&#8221;. One of the friends ran to his house and Jaden&#8217;s mother, Hendrien, retrieved her son from the water.Members of Phoenix Security arrived at the scene just before 17:00. With Mr Tiaan Erasmus, they immediately applied CPR and rushed him to the medical centre in town. Unfortunately, after several attempts by doctors, he was declared dead.TCLM denies that its excavations exposed the live wire in the large puddle of waterPhoenix Security, local hazmat operator, Mr Deon Broekman, and bystanders returned to the scene after Thaba Chweu Local Municipality (TCLM) electricians were called out to determine if the wire lying in the puddle was indeed live.ALSO READ: Child apparently electrocuted by TCM cableAccording to the electricians, it was not. However, a private electrician was called in for a second opinion and he determined that the wire was indeed a 230-volt cable and that it could have led to the child&#8217;s death. The newspaper has two videos proving that the wire was live, smouldering and emitting electrical noises.Jaden had been a pupil at Laerskool Lydenburg. Countless messages of sympathy have flooded his Facebook. He was the son of Hendrien and Jaco Landsberg and had a younger sister Chanlee (8). Jaden enrolled at Laerskool Lydenburg in 2013. &#8220;He was loved among the staff and his peers,&#8221; the school said. &#8220;He was a very jovial and talented child with good manners. He participated in every sport at school and gave his best at everything. He always wanted to go the extra mile, like making a last run in cricket to make sure he does his best. Jaden was always willing to help with a beautiful smile on his face. Jaden will definitely leave a void in our school, town and community. We grieve with the parents and family and share in their loss.&#8221;&nbsp;The DA in the area has demanded that the municipality tend to the problem to avoid further incidents. &#8220;This speaks highly to negligence on the part of the municipality,&#8221; it said. &#8220;Should we find that TCLM is guilty of the non-maintenance of electricity network supplies to the Lydenburg area, the current acting municipal manager (MM) and his team must be held accountable for the death of this boy.&#8221;ALSO READ: Residents call on municipality to deliverThe party said it was also found that many electrical boxes and mini substations are not fitted with locks. In some instances, the doors of the electrical boxes were hanging on their hinges&#8220;The acting MM must implement a proactive government strategy that will prevent the loss of any lives in the area. One life lost is one life too many. We will, therefore, request an urgent meeting with the acting MM to outline the municipality&#8217;s strategy or contingency plans to ensure that the electricity supply network is tested and maintained on a regular basis. A report in this regard must be tabled to the council on a monthly basis to ensure that such incidents are prevented.&#8220;The DA would like to express our sincere condolences to the family of the young boy whose life was cut short. We will leave no stone unturned until the guilty parties face the might of the law.&#8221; TCLM responds: According to the acting mm, Mr Eugene Malungana, the municipal electrician, Mr Lesiba Sepuru was on standby on Friday when the incident occurred. &#8220;At around 17:00 Sepuru attended to a call out at the corner of Lombaard and Rivier streets. On arrival he found a gentleman who explained to him that a child has been rushed to the hospital due to suspected electrocution.&#8221;The cable was tested in a video to prove that the wire was live. Click on the article link to watch the video.Malunga said when looking at the area where it is alleged that the child was electrocuted that TCLM could not see any electrical cable, since the area was full of water. &#8220;The electrician on standby then called the electrical superintendent, Mr Themba Siboza, to come and assist him on the matter. Later the electrical superintendent called the electrical manager, Mr Sinenhlanhla Manqele, to inform him what had happened.&#8221;Malunga said the man who was found on site seemed very confident that there was an open cable inside the puddle as well as where the cable was lying. &#8220;The cable was then searched for through the use of a long stick and it was then found live and deactivated.&#8220;From our investigations we found that after recent heavy rains, a pool of water formed in the area. We further checked our records if there was any work performed in the area and we found that the municipality never performed any work or excavation. We suspect that someone was working in the vicinity with a TLB trying to divert water from the road. While they were excavating, an underground municipal electricity cable was damaged and left exposed (open circuited).&#8220;The damaged cable was never reported to the municipality, and hence no one knew that there was a live cable left open in the area.&#8220;The excavated area where the damaged electricity cable is located was not done by the municipality. The excavated area was not barricaded as per the requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993 as amended. &#8220;There are allegations that excavation work was done early this year on that area by an unknown TLB. The municipality is still conducting full investigation on the matter to establish all the facts around the incident.&#8221;