  The British singer-songwriter, best known for his 1969 hit Where Do You Go to My Lovely died on 8 January, aged 75 after a six-year battle with progressive supranuclear palsy. Although his music was classified as pop, it generally encompassed ballads derived from traditional folk music rather than traditional rock and roll. The record remained Sarstedt’s biggest hit, despite his releasing numerous successful albums and singles from the late 1960s onwards.  The rock and roll legend, best known for his hits Blueberry Hill and Ain’t that a shame, died on 24 October of natural causes at the age of 89 at his home in Harvey, Louisiana. One of the pioneers of rock and roll music, Domino sold more than 65 million records. His 1949 release The Fat Man is widely regarded as the first million-selling Rock and Roll record. True to his word, in 1986 Domino did not attend his induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and in 1987 he did not go to Los Angeles to accept a Lifetime Achievement Grammy. He holds the No. 25 spot on Rolling Stone’s list of the greatest artists of all time.  Hvorostovsky, the Russian baritone fondly known as opera’s Siberian Tiger and the Elvis Presley of Russian classical music died on 22 November at age 55 in London after a two-and-a-half-year battle with brain cancer. He had been awarded the Order of Merit for the Fatherland of the IV degree, one of the highest non-military honours, in his native Russia, for his great contribution to Russian art and culture. The New York Times described him as “the charismatic Siberian baritone who won critical acclaim and devoted fans around the world for his burnished voice, uncanny breath control and rueful expressivity”.  The Linkin Park lead vocalist was found dead on 20 July at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, California, after he had hung himself. He was 41. Bennington may have mimicked the suicide of his close friend, Chris Cornell, who died in a similar way two months earlier. His death coincided with what would have been Cornell’s 53rd birthday. He was best known for the band’s hits Numb, In the end and Crawling. Linkin Park has sold over 65 million records worldwide.  Reese, an American jazz and gospel singer, actress, and ordained minister whose career spanned seven decades, died at her home in California at age 86 on 19 November. Her 1959 single Don’t You Know was a huge hit launching her subsequent career. In the late 1960s, Reese hosted her own talk show, Della, which ran for 197 episodes. She also starred in films from 1975, and achieved continuing success in the television religious supernatural drama Touched by an Angel from 1994 to 2003 in which she played the leading role of Tess.  The American Grammy winning singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, record producer, and actor died on 2 October aged 66 after suffering cardiac arrest. He was best known as the lead singer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, the group behind hits including Free Fallin’ and American Girl, but he was also a member and co-founder of the late 1980s supergroup the Traveling Wilburys. Petty sold more than 80 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling music artists of all time. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2002.  The internationally renowned South African jazz, fusion and mbaqanga singer and guitarist from Mpumalanga died on 12 July from lung cancer. Phiri collaborated with Paul Simon and Ladysmith Black Mambazo on Simon’s Graceland album in 1985.  He was a founding member of the Cannibals in the 1970s. When the Cannibals disbanded Phiri founded Stimela, with whom he made gold and platinum-selling albums like Fire, Passion and Ecstacy in 1982 and Look, Listen and Decide in 1986.  The legendary country singer, guitarist, songwriter, television host and actor died at age 81 in Nashville on 8 August after a long struggle with Alzheimer’s Disease. Campbell is best known for a series of hit songs in the 1960s and 1970s, and for hosting The Glen Campbell Good time Hour from 1969 to 1972. He released more than 70 albums and sold 45 million records worldwide. In 1967 he won four Grammys in the country and pop categories. Campbell played a supporting role in the film True Grit (1969), which earned him a Golden Globe nomination for Most Promising Newcomer and an Oscar nomination for singing the title song.  The Partridge Family actor and I Think I Love You singer, was waiting for a liver transplant when he died of liver failure on 21 November aged 67. Cassidy announced in February that he was living with dementia. His daughter Katie, said his last words were “So much wasted time”. Cassidy was mainly known for his role as Keith Partridge, the son of Shirley Partridge (played by his stepmother Shirley Jones), in the musical-sitcom The Partridge Family, which led to his becoming one of pop culture’s teen idols and pop singers of the 1970s.  Seven-time Grammy winning musician Al Jarreau died in Los Angeles on 12 February at the age of 76. He had been hospitalized two weeks earlier due to exhaustion, leading him to cancel his 2017 tour. Jarreau was the only vocalist ever to win Grammy awards in three different categories. He is perhaps best known for his 1981 album Breakin’ Away. Jarreau also sang the theme song of the late-1980s television series Moonlighting, and was among the performers on the 1985 charity song We are the world.  Chuck Berry, one of the founding fathers of rock and roll, died on 18 March of cardiac arrest at the age of 90. With songs like Maybellene (1955), Roll Over Beethoven (1956), Rock and Roll Music (1957) and Johnny B. Goode (1958), Berry refined and developed rhythm and blues into the major elements that made rock and roll distinctive. Writing lyrics that focused on teen life and consumerism, and developing a music style that included guitar solos and showmanship, Berry was a major influence on subsequent rock music. The Beatles, the Rolling Stones, Elvis Presley and The Beach Boys among others, covered Berry’s songs. He holds the No. 5 spot on Rolling Stone’s list of the greatest artists of all time.