Packing is an important part of planning for your holiday, as you don’t want to be stuck without something essential when you’re far from home.
Here are twelve things you should have at the top of your packing list:
Important documents
Although most people keep their ID’s and passports in their wallets, pockets or handbags, it’s a good idea to put duplicates of important documents in your suitcase. These include ID, birth certificates of minors, prescriptions, list of allergies and your vehicle licence and registration papers.
First aid kit
Make sure you don’t need to make multiple trips to the nearest pharmacy by packing a small first aid kit. This should include plasters, a bandage or two, tablets for headaches, pain and nausea, medicine for runny tummies, salve for burns, antiseptic and basic cold medication such as Med-Lemon. Antihistamines are also essential if any of your family suffers from allergies.
Spare phone/tablet charger and adapter
Pack in an extra phone charger and adapter plug to ensure you don’t get stuck somewhere with no communication. Invest in a power bank or buy a car charger if you’re travelling far or frequently over the course of your holiday.
Medication
If you’re on chronic medication or prone to getting sick from eating strange foods or drinking tap water, make sure you pack everything you need to stay healthy and enjoy your holiday. Remember to pack your prescription if you’ll need to pick up a new batch of medicine while you’re out.
Earphones
It may not seem like an essential, but after a few hours in the car with the family, you’ll want to tune out with some music or watch a movie. This can also help avoid fights over loud music and lower the noise level in the car or at your holiday destination.
Sunscreen and mozzie spray
Whether you’re heading to the bush or the beach, these two are a must. Be sure to get a high enough SPF for both you and the kids and get a spray-on if they don’t like cream. Mosquito repellent like sprays, roll-on and bracelets will go a long way to ensuring a peaceful rest. Alternatively you can fill a spray bottle with water and add a few drops of lavender essential oil. This has also proven to keep mozzies away and your room or tent smelling lovely.
Bottle and can openers
Although most holiday homes have this in their cupboards, make sure you pack both a bottle and a can opener. This is a great help if you’ve stocked up on tinned food or planning to enjoy a glass of wine or a few beers.
Hair and toothbrush
The grooming essentials. Pack an extra toothbrush just in case another family member forgets theirs. If you don’t have space for a big bulky hairbrush, there are many hand travel-size brushes on the market.
Wetwipes
These come in handy while travelling and when reaching your destination. They can help disinfect surfaces that don’t look too clean (kitchens or public restrooms) and can tie you over if you’re camping and can’t get to a shower.
Ziplock or plastic bags
Keep a few plastic bags handy to store leftovers in the fridge, keep souvenirs tidy in your bag or to store trash in until the next stop.
Book, notebook and pen
Keep a travel journal to document your memories or write a list of emergency contact numbers in a blank notebook. People who love being creative can fill the book with poems, messages from people they’ve visited or sketches.
Flipflops
They’re handy for both the beach and mall and don’t take up much space in your suitcase. It’s also a great backup in case a shoe breaks or gets lost.