 MBOMBELA – Two female cyclists were hit by a truck during their regular exercise routine on the N4 on Monday afternoon. Eyewitnesses told Lowvelder that the driver was driving erratically, entered the emergency lane and hit the cyclists. Yvette du Toit, one of the victims, confirmed that they were hit and dragged along with the truck for some distance. It occurred about 4,5 kilometres from Hall’s on Monday at around 16:30. “We are a group of five ladies who park at Hall’s every afternoon (weather permitting) and ride out 24 kilometres, cross at the garage and come back.” The other cyclists could not make it on the day so it was only Du Toit and Gi-one Craig. Also see: Legendary cyclist killed near Hazyview “We heard a truck coming at one helluva speed. He must have crossed into the yellow line. I think it hit her on her shoulder, which forced her into me – I was a little ahead – and it dragged us some way with it. I can still hear her bumping against the truck. “It happened so fast. I think she fell and went over my handlebars.” Du Toit fractured her left wrist and Craig broke her collarbone. She thinks the driver stopped about 800 metres on. “His passenger rushed over to us immediately, apologising profusely.” Mariska Joubert said she was driving behind the truck, which was drifting over both lanes when it crossed the yellow line and clearly hit the women. A number of cars stopped to assist. Joubert phoned emergency services. ER24 responded within minutes and took them to Mediclinic Nelspruit. Du Toit thanked the staff of both for their excellent service. “They really took good care of us two shocked women,” she said. The cyclist added that their group has been using the road since she got her road bike about two months ago. “We really struggled to find a safe road on which to cycle,” she said in reference to the Facebook comments taking them on for cycling on the N4. “There are usually four sets of traffic cops on the road, as well a very wide shoulder. At this stage it is one of the safest routes. “We were quite visible,” Du Toit explained. “It was a straight stretch of road and I had my emergency lights on as well.” As a motorist, Joubert also uses the road almost daily. “It is unbelievable how people speed. Even though there are traffic officers, people warn one another by flashing their lights and just keep speeding,” she told the newspaper. Also read: Cyclist dies during MTB race Last weekend at least 64 motorists were arrested throughout the province: 39 for drunken driving and 23 for speeding. Community safety, security and liaison MEC, Pat Ngomane said drivers deserved harsh punishment for reckless behaviour. Department spokesman, Joseph Mabuza told Lowvelder he was unaware of the incident. The company that owns the truck said the same. Du Toit would have formally opened a police case after the newspaper went to press on Thursday.