 MBOMBELA – There is no public hospital in the Lowveld that can deal with severe burn wounds. Hero Burn Foundation, a non-profit organisation set up to help burn-related services to burn survivors and their families, said the Red Cross Children’s Hospital in Cape Town is the best for treating children. With a little help, the foundation managed to arrange the quick transfer for the boy to Cape Town yesterday.  Hero Burn’s founder, Annerie du Plooy, said every hour counts. The boy was urgently transferred from Rob Ferreira Hospital, which is not equipped to take care of burn victims. The transfer of a burn patient is complicated. First an ICU ambulance transports him or her from hospital to KMI Airport. There a fixed-wing ICU aircraft picks the patient up. This costs about R150 000, but Aerocare performs it at a much-reduced rate for Hero Burn. This week Ecumed Medical, Avcom Pilots, Flightsure and Ecomed made large donations to raise the full outstanding amount. Du Plooy was in tears, as time was not on the little boy’s side. She explained that burn wounds required extreme specialist care and receiving this fast saved lives. He was transported to the airport by ER24 and airlifted in the afternoon and arrived, in a stable condition, in Cape Town at around 18:00.  Du Plooy also thanked SA Community Crime Watch, Dr Haasbroek at Robs and all other supporters of the foundation. At the same time, Du Plooy was making arrangements to make the Sibanyoni family’s Christmas wish a reality. Khosi Sibanyoni (7) arrived home from Cape Town with her mom and baby sister on Friday. The three have been living in Cape Town since Khosi suffered severe burn wounds to more than 80 per cent of her body on November 3 last year. She had severe burn wounds over 80 per cent of her body, also internally. It is not clear how the fire started, aside from an accident at home. She was given a 10 per cent chance of survival, which makes her recovery nothing short of miraculous. She was intubated and ventilated in ICU in Rob Ferreira. The Red Cross Children’s Hospital was the only one available to take Khosi. Her baby sister was a mere four months old at the time. Their mom, Emma Sibanyoni, had to hastily pack to join her unconscious daughter on the flight. “She was in an induced coma and on life support. It was touch-and-go.”   The plane waiting to take Khosi Sibanyoni to Cape Town a little more than a year ago.   Du Plooy describes Khosi being alive as a miracle. “Khosi has been through so much and she is such a fighter. “If there is anything that can humanly be done to give her comfort, we have to do it,” she explained. “It has been a long, hard road. It was also a very difficult and traumatic time for her mother. Your child looks totally different from what she used to, and the pain is excruciating.” Small children also do not understand the pain, or have any patience with the long time it takes to heal. “The trauma is very big and we try to make it as easy as possible.” When Khosi is not in hospital, she attends school and receives rehabilitation therapy at St Joseph’s Paediatric Rehabilitation Programme. Also read: Fire at BUCO  She shows improvement every day. “She has the spirit to live. She loves dancing, she loves music. She sang in church the other day. “She lost the fingers on her left hand, but she wants to do everything herself. “She attends school. She even learned Afrikaans. She mingles with the other children. She is is doing amazingly.” She still receives regular skin grafts and laser treatment on the skin. Recently an infection also landed her back in hospital for a few weeks. See also: Luxury suites at Bundu lodge burn down Her mother, Emma, told Lowvelder that she was looking forward to spending time with her family very much, and that she was incredibly proud of her daughter. After the family visit, she has to return to Cape Town for further treatment on January 15. “It is very important that they can go home,” Du Plooy said. She was arranging transport from Johannesburg to Mbombela as bus travel is “really very hard” on Khosi’s body. Du Plooy also hopes to organise a direct flight back to Cape Town. • Hero Burn Foundation is registered as a public benefit organisation. Anyone able and willing to contribute towards the foundation’s work can contact 082-902-1133. You may also be interested in: How to treat burn wounds