 HAZYVIEW – A despairing business owner may be forced to close his industrial bakery after his delivery trucks were hit by robbers for the 49th time since February last year. The latest incident on one of Fresh Loaf Bakery’s trucks was last Monday. Owner Con van Rensburg said the modus operandi was always similar. Usually gunmen await the drivers at the truck after they have made a delivery and collected the cash payments. They force them into the back of the truck, drive off to a remote area and cut open the safe with grinders and similar tools, and escape with the cash. They usually also steal the batteries. On Monday they also stole the diesel. Also see: Police launch manhunt for cash-in-transit robbers Two of his employees had to tow the truck back with the company bakkie – and rolled it. He said the police were not on the scene and asked him to bring the truck to the station. Van Rensburg added that in seven years his other four bakeries, located in Limpopo, have been hit a total of three times. He estimated that at least R267 113 has been stolen, but that has not been the only loss. The robbers also vandalised his trucks and terrify his drivers, who then quit. Also read: Police intercept guns presumably smuggled for use in CIT heists Van Rensburg estimated that his turnover has decreased by one-third. Investment in staff who do not remain with the company is a massive contributing factor. “My drivers just leave. Two have been shot at, one was hit. They are scared, they fear for their lives,” he told Lowvelder. The robberies are also getting progressively worse. The damage from a robbery in November. The latest incident saw them break a hole in the diesel tank. The reason was not clear. The case numbers keep piling up. Van Rensburg noted that a few people have been arrested in connection with the crimes before, “but nothing has come from it”. “We can’t remain standing,” he added. “I don’t see how.” Police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi said it would take some time to confirm the progress of each case at the 10 police stations at which the crimes were reported.