 HAZYVIEW – “I feel very sad about what happened, it was so unexpected,” said Sizane Mathebula, the aunt of two people who died in a collision between a taxi and three cows on the R538 near Hazyview on Friday evening. The crash in which 11 people were killed and five seriously injured shook the community of Shabalala Emphundzane Village. “I cry with the families of all the deceased, and feel so sorry for them at this unforeseen accident,” said Mathebula at a meeting with the Mpumalanga community safety, security and liaison MEC, Pat Ngomane on Monday. Read more: Carnage caused by strays on the R538 Sizane Mathebula. Photo: Hancu Louw The meeting which was held at the Lakai-Roy Zion Apostolic Church in Shabalala Emphundzane Village, was attended by the affected families seeking answers from the MEC on how the provincial government will be assisting the families of the deceased who were on their way to Mozambique for a church gathering. The 11 people who died during the crash, including three children, were burned beyond recognition. “Because of the severity of the burns, government will be conducting DNA tests to determine the identity of the deceased,” said Ngomane. He promised family members that the results of the test would be made available on Friday, December 8. According to Ngomane, each family will receive R15 000 regardless of whether they have a funeral policy. At the meeting the families of the deceased agreed that a joint memorial service and funeral service will be held in Shabalala Emphundzane in Shabalala Trust. Read more: Death toll rises to 11 in taxi crash on the R538 The MEC Pat Ngomane addresses affected community members. Photo: Hancu Louw Before the meeting Ngomane met with representatives from the SAPS, community members and local farmers, the municipality, law enforcement, road-safety practitioners, forensic personnel, social services officials, pastors and councillors at Mthimba FE, to devise a strategy for managing stray livestock on the R538 to prevent future accidents. Although Ngomane was not able to expand on how the various stakeholders plan to manage the issue of stray cattle on the R538, City of Mbombela Local Municipality general manager, strategic support, David Shabangu said the city will communicate a plan to the public as soon as it has been finalised. On Thursday members of the Jock of the Bushveld Conservancy met at Peebles to discuss the matter and to work on a plan to find ways to ensure the safety of those travelling on the R538 between White River and Hazyview. According to Laetitia Bull, secretary of the conservancy, the issue has been long-standing. “The issue has repeatedly been brought to the attention of the SAPS and local traffic services,” she said. Also read: Two in serious but stable condition Two of the three stray cows that were the cause of the accident. Photo: supplied At the meeting Ngomane also resolved that the Department of Social Development will profile the affected families to provide them with support they need, be it counselling, social relief where there is a need, pastoral services or debriefing. Speaking with difficulty due to the enormity of her loss, Mathebula said she was grateful for the MEC’s actions. “As a community we feel thankful for what the MEC has promised,” she said.