 With at least 50 alleged poachers arrested in and around the Kruger National Park (KNP) during November, Frik Rossouw, senior environmental investigator for SANParks, hopes that 2017 may be the first year that more poachers are arrested than rhinos poached.
He spoke to journalists on the scene of such a poaching, while a forensic team was still busy gathering evidence after three rhinos were shot near Skukuza last week. Walter Mhlangani, Xongani Mathebula and Emmanuel Mdluli had already appeared in Skukuza Regional Court on several related charges.
Although official poaching statistics for the year have not been released, an estimated 500 rhinos poached means a rate of more than one per day. November and December traditionally see more poaching incidents than average.
This was echoed by section ranger Neels van Wyk, who told the journalists that up to three incursions of the eastern border of the park are experienced per day. His ranger team and colleagues from Dyck Advisory Group (DAG), operational in the Sabie Game Park on the Mozambican side, gave the journalists a demonstration of cross-border poaching operations.
Alongside the KNP, Sabie Game Park also forms part of the Greater Limpopo Conservancy and jointly combats poaching in the area. The approximately 400-kilometre long fence between the KNP and Mozambique runs through concessions like the Sabie Game Park as well as open areas.
DAG was established in June 2015 and evolved into an adequately equipped counter-poaching unit funded by international donors. From their ops room in the Sabie Game Park, they assist in two sections of the KNP: Lower Sabie and Tsokwane. 
They are in constant communication with tracker teams in the KNP, and alert the latter when they pick up any entry into that park. The KNP rangers then try to intercept suspects with vehicle and tracking teams, usually including a canine team.
If they are in hot pursuit of suspects, the park helicopter is also used to “keep poachers down” and allow tracking teams to catch up. A Dobermann/bloodhound cross tracker dog that can follow tracks 20 kilometres behind a suspect, is one of the canine heroes of such operations.
With the media group, traditional leaders from the areas west of the KNP were also guests of the KNP management.
Managing executive of the park, Glenn Phillips emphasised the importance of cooperation between them and the leaders, since the counter-poaching units need intelligence from outside to successfully curb incursions. “We need community scouts along those fences,” he said. 
Phillips revealed that the cost of counter-poaching efforts in the park have increased from about R15 million in 2011 to R270 million in 2017. The money was spent on increasing the rangers’ corps (now comprising 450), the acquisition and maintenance of four helicopters (three ready for action at any given time), technology, salaries, vehicles, dogs and general maintenance.
He said few people realise the ecological impact of poaching. “Rangers now chase poachers and necessarily neglect conservation monitoring. All other priorities are moved down, and in the meantime, issues like snaring also increase!” 
Poaching also impacts psychologically on rangers. “They experience up to three encounters during every mission and each time a ranger shoots a poacher, he is accused of murder and his rifle confiscated,” Phillips said. “We have a lawyer on retainer permanently just to attend to these cases.”
On top of that, rangers are exposed to recruitment by poaching syndicates.
Traditional leader, Kgoshi Mathibela Mokoena of the Mathibela tribe, adjacent to the KNP agreed with Phillips on the vulnerability of their young men. “People involved with poaching have lots of money with which they lure our men. They must stop abusing local young men for their dirty work,” he pleaded.
He pledged his tribe’s support to the park and said it is his people’s duty to report any strange activities in the community. “Once rhinos are extinct, it would have a devastating effect on tourism and will affect our community negatively too.”
“Yes, the poaching numbers are coming down, but we are far from winning,” Phillips concluded.