 MBOMBELA – It has emerged that the provincial government is the biggest contributor to the City of Mbombela Local Municipality’s (CMLM) financial woes. All departments’ debt owed to the City stood at R50 million as of November 15. This came to light during the municipal council’s fourth ordinary meeting on November 30. In response to the debt, a unit dedicated to government debts in the collection section has been established. At the meeting, the mayoral committee indicated that the process of data gathering and cleaning with regard to government accounts should be expedited, so as to improve council’s cash flow. Also read: City of Mbombela vows to keep the lights on “The issue has been coming for a long time, and the biggest challenge to both council and the DA’s oversight committee is that the integrity of the data available to us is not up to standard,” said DA councillor, Sanley van der Merwe, who alleges that for the past year there was a lack of data integrity and internal controls with regard to how debt owed to the CMLM was recorded. “The City has to apply the same credit-control measures to all parties that owe us money. Why does it allow government departments which owe it money to default on payments? The credit-control policies in place make no differentiation between residents, businesses and government departments, and as such need to be enforced in a uniform manner,” said Van der Merwe. During the same meeting the issue of continued fraudulent overtime claims, which required the CMLM to write off R30 million as wasteful and fruitless expenditure for the 2016/17 financial year, was addressed by the opposition. Also read: City of Mbombela engages in talks with Eskom Van der Merwe put forward a motion which proposed that an independent forensic investigation be launched to determine the root and scope of the alleged fraudulent overtime claims made by employees of the CMLM. “Issues of non-compliance with council policies and previous allegations of fraudulent claims have been reported several times to the accounting officer, as well as in council to the executive mayor,” said Van der Merwe, who alleges that the situation has been ongoing for more than two years. Speaker Mandla Msibi and executive mayor Cllr Sibusiso Mathonsi supported the motion, and proposed that money be identified and earmarked in the adjustment budget to make provision for an investigation to be launched. “The motion must move on, but we need to stress that the issue be understood in the context of historical issues that came before the election of this current council,” said Msibi. Also read: Still a long way for City of Mbombela • Council also extended the management contract of Mbombela Stadium management, Platinum Sport, by six months, as a new management plan has not yet been approved. It is set to expire on December 31. DA caucus leader, Steve Schormann requested that a report be made available on the current stadium activities and costs so as to put into perspective the current operational costs.