 The Uplands Music Department held an afternoon recital with Cameron Williams, winner of the 2017 Unisa Music Scholarship competition, on Sunday November 26. Williams who is studying music at Stellenbosch University, took the grade eight music exams, and along with 14 other students was chosen to go through to the finals where contestants picked one musical instrument to perform on. Williams chose the saxophone, and truly outdid himself winning the Unisa South African Music Scholarship. Also read: Young man’s love of music thrives against all odds Cameron Williams and Lorraine Kirk. Photo: Danielle Sheedy “I’m very excited to be performing here today,” he said, “My grandparents are from the Lowveld, but this will be the first time I will be doing a solo performance here.” “I really enjoy what I do, It’s not work for me, it’s fun,” he added, “My dream is to go overseas and do my masters in music.” Williams spent his Saturday at Uplands Prep doing classes with students on the clarinet and saxophone. Also read: Lowveld Chamber Music Association prepares for Christmas The recital also featured various other vocal and instrumental ensembles. Lorraine Kirk, director of music at Uplands Prep welcomed the audience, and Cameron Williams opened the concert with the Capriccio for solo clarinet by Sutermeister captivating the audience right from the get-go. The Hummingbirds sang beautiful ballads, enchanting the audience with their angelic voices, the crowd-pleaser being their stunning rendition of La Mer. Thembi Mahlangu, an intern at Uplands Prep came on stage wearing an elegant violet ball gown, and sang Pans Angelicus and Nella Fantasia. Her mezzo-soprano voice, carried the music through the hall, and her performance was thoroughly enjoyed by all. Also read: Casterbridge Music Development Academy is breeding new talent Shan-Rich Lemmer, a baritone, sang Largo al factotum, and a stunning rendition of “Have you met miss Jones?”, he also did a duet with Mahlangu, Parles-moi de ma mere. Kirk joined with Amé Verster, and the talented Williams performed a clarinet piece. During the interval, guests were invited to enjoy a cup of coffee or tea, and indulge in scrumptious snacks while socialising among themselves, and the second half of the show saw Williams performing a few more numbers on the saxophone. The recital proved to be a memorable afternoon of musical bliss, which the audience thoroughly enjoyed.