 MBOMBELA – “Locals need not buy bottled water where Silulumanzi oversees water purification.” This statement by the water provider’s CEO, Marius van Aardt, is attested to by the accolades it has earned. While participating in government’s Blue and Green Drop incentives, Silulumanzi met at least 95 per cent of the criteria for quality drinking water and wastewater treatment. This means that the wastewater and drinking water treatments in its Mbombela, KaNyamazane, Tekwane, Msogwaba, Matsulu and Karino concessions are of a world-class standard. Also read: Sembcorp still in full flow after 15 years’ service Lowvelder recently spoke to Van Aardt about Silulumanzi’s water and sewage purification plans. “When drought hit over the last two years, we proactively made plans for the reuse of wastewater. The engineering feasibility thereof has been investigated and the plans filed, should we need it,” he said. In addition, Van Aardt said that the desalination of seawater would be the next step in water purification for South Africa’s coastal settlements. He explained that the desalination and reuse of grey water makes use of similar technologies to remove impurities from water. Firstly, a filtration process rids the water of larger impurities. This is followed by reverse osmosis. Also read: Water restrictions lifted but levels decline “Water is pressed through foolproof filtration membranes that successfully rid the water of all impurities, including viruses and bacteria,” he said. This is followed by adding minerals to the water, where after it is disinfected using chlorine gas or ozone. “When this has been done, the water can be distributed and used,” he said. According to van Aardt, the infrastructure needed for desalination is expensive. However, he said that this may, to a large extent, be the future of water provision. Also read: Sembcorp spreads some love “Infrastructure has been established at Sembcorp Siza Water, Sembcorp’s Ballito plant,” he said. Taken into consideration the worldwide water crisis, desalination and the purification and reuse of waste water may become humanity’s preferred ways of clean water provision. “Regardless of what happens, Sembcorp will be ready to offer the services you need,” he said.