 PILGRIM’S REST – Another Jock waymark, one that was recently replaced for the reopening of the Jock Trek Tourism Route over the Escarpment and into the Lowveld, at the top of Robbers Pass, has been stolen. The rock face from where the Jock Trek waymarker has now been removed twice. The original one, made of bronze, got nicked some time ago. Since then Mpumalanga Heritage has replaced it with a plaque made of resin and cement which is of no value to scrap-metal dealers. Also read: UPDATE: Former Toyota* manager pleads guilty to theft The bronze inscription on a monument to commemorate the last stagecoach robbery in this region, a little lower down the pass, has also been removed. The bronze plate from the monument indicating the location of the last stagecoach hold-up before it was removed. Dr Gerrit Haarhoff, who is spearheading this heritage project, spoke about the theft saying:”What we are trying to achieve here is to reinstate an old tourism asset which is of value to the province and to the benefit of its entire people. One should expect that this would have been cherished and protected by those passing by.” The bronze plate from the monument indicating the location of the last stagecoach hold-up after it was removed.It has not yet turned up at any scrap-metal dealer. Inform Mpumalanga Heritage the moment this happens. Even if it is noticed anywhere else, please contact Duncan Ballantyne on 082-329-7105. The original Jock Trek was instated in the 1950s by installing bronze waymarkers at spots where the modern routes cross or run along the old wagon routes of the past. Many of these locations were made famous in the book Jock of the Bushveld by Percy Fitzpatrick, based on his adventures as a young transport rider in the 1870s during the gold rush in these parts. Also read: Yellow metal theft – A gold mine industry In the 1980s the Lowveld Transport Riders Association, a heritage group for the preservation of these old routes and places, also did much to replace and to increase these waymarks – this time with baked and glazed pottery plaques. Also read: Top anti-corruption cop in the dock for theft In recent years Mpumalanga Heritage, a provincial civic grouping for the preservation of the local history and heritage, has continued the project. It is sponsored by Enercell Technologies and Talisman Construction Equipment Rentals, which are both based in Mbombela. Also read: Theft of rails and sleepers results in serious danger The route, with about forty waymarkers, many new, is about to be relaunched in August 2018 together with a new well-researched publication on the subject. This book will also serve as a guidebook to visitors and locals alike.