Meet Dumi. Like so many of us, she’s had a long and difficult year, and the demands on her are ever increasing. Moreover, quality time with her partner, James, has been extremely difficult to come by. But with the festive season nearing, Dumi knows that a romantic day out is just what she needs to escape her everyday stresses and reignite the flame of their relationship. To help readers like Dumi and James create the perfect setting for their very own #Daycation love story, the sentimental (and always #SaferThanSafe) crew at Dunlop have asked us to put together a short list of romantic destinations in the City of Gold. The Rose Garden @ Johannesburg Botanical Garden. Image: NJR ZA Beautiful gardens around the world have seen their fair share of first kisses, first loves, proposals, weddings, and many other blissful moments. In this regard, the Johannesburg Botanical Garden is no different, and it’s an ideal place for our couple to unpack a picnic basket and enjoy a relaxing champagne breakfast in simply gorgeous surrounds. There’s no better way to explore our beautiful Highveld Next, we’d like to send our couple to the wonderfully green and expansive landscape of Muldersdrift. Whereas romantic horse-rides are usually pictured on a stretch of pristine beach, Gauteng’s gently rolling bushveld will certainly do the trick. If a guided tour on horseback doesn’t excite your imagination, the Hartbeespoort Dam and its much lauded Aerial Cableway are just a stone’s throw away. The night time view from the viewing deck. Image: Roger Gordan @flickr.com Incredible views of city skylines have long been considered an indispensable motif in romantic films. For our 3rd destination, Dumi and James have travelled into the heart of Jo’burg to experience the buzzing metropolis from an elevated perspective (and by fitting Dunlop tyres they arrived safe and sound). At 50 stories high, and towering above the cityscape below, the Carlton Centre’s glass-encased panoramic viewing deck is without peer on the African Continent. Dumi and James stand hand-in-hand, watching the sun set over an awe-inspiring African city. Images: Adamina and CCFoodTravel @flickr.com In the evening, our couple’s date night begins in earnest. Dumi and James are perfectly poised to enjoy a magical dinner and catch a movie in true Jozi style. The Maboneng Precinct is an absolute treat on a warm evening, and there are a variety of dazzlingly scrumptious dishes on offer – each of which would impress even the harshest of critics. At our last stop, we’re brought to the culturally vibrant Maboneng Bioscope. Loving the summer night, Dumi and James have opted for an open air screening, relaxing in each other’s arms under the city’s night sky after their best #Daycation yet. (Go ahead James – it’s definitely time for that kiss!) 