 MBOMBELA – Zodwa Gumede’s (23) decapitated body was discovered under a pile of stones after she was brutally killed in March 2011. On Wednesday the two men responsible for her death were sentenced in the Nelspruit Regional Court. Maphevu Nkosi will spend 20 years in prison for killing Gumede. His brother, Velaphi Nkosi, was sentenced to six years behind bars for his involvement in the gruesome events on March 26 that year. It all started in a Pienaar tavern. Gumede and her boyfriend, a state witness whose identity has not been confirmed to Lowvelder, were having a drink. According to the boyfriend, Maphevu approached the two, grabbed Gumede and shoved her into his car before driving away. The boyfriend, however, was intoxicated at the time and could not sufficiently testify whether she had been kidnapped. Read: Two brothers guilty of decapitating woman According to Maphevu’s sworn statement, he took Gumede to his home. He swore that she was still alive the next morning and that he had not seen her since. Nobody else would ever see or speak to her again. According to post-mortem findings, she was killed shortly after midnight. “The cause of death was blunt force to the neck. The head was totally separated from the body,” the magistrate, Sheila Msibi, recounted previously. Gumede’s relatives approached the police when she seemed to have disappeared. Maphevu was arrested and it transpired that his brother may have had information on her whereabouts. About a week after the incident her cousin, Elliot Gumede, accompanied the police to Velaphi’s home. Read: How far to go? “I asked him where Zodwa was and he immediately told me he will show me where she is as long as he can be a state witness,” Elliot had recounted while the trial was still ongoing. He led the police and Elliot to a pile of stones next to a river. Under it, they found her decomposing body. Although both Nkosis plead not guilty, Msibi convicted them last month and sentenced them accordingly. They will serve their sentences under Nelspruit Correctional Services.