  In the afternoon of that day, a G4S Security vehicle came under fire. According to J&M’s Shaun Terblanche the incident occurred on the Sabie/Lydenburg road close to the Sudwala turnoff at around 16:00. Two Mercedes-Benzes ambushed a CIT truck. The suspects opened fire on the truck causing the driver to lose control of the vehicle and to drive off the road into the embankment. About eight or ten suspects then forced the security guards out the truck. They set detonators and blew off the rear of the truck.The suspects fled the scene with an undisclosed amount of cash. Both Mercedes-Benzes were abandoned on the Sudwala road.  In Hazyview, six armed men attacked two security guards and British American Tobacco (BAT) officials outside Shabalala Ndosi Tavern at around 15:00. The suspects shot the two guards. One was hit in a shoulder and the other in an arm. The assailants then attacked the BAT officials inside the tavern. The suspects fled in in a white Ford Kuga, white Quantum and silver VW Polo with three cartons of cigarettes, an undisclosed amount of cash and the security officers firearms. The registration numbers of the vehicles were unknown. The security guards were treated at Mediclinic Nelspruit. A G4S Security truck transporting cash was attacked by more than 10 suspects armed with rifles near Thulamahashe. The suspects drove a white Mercedes-Benz and a blue BMW sedan.The Mercedes-Benz allegedly pulled in front of the G4S vehicle and slowed down. The BMW then moved along the side and the truck was forced off the road. Once they came to a stop the armed suspects allegedly ordered the two occupants from G4S to get out and remain in the nearby field. The thieves blew open the canopy of the truck with explosives and left with an undisclosed amount of cash.  Police arrested 11 suspects aged between 20 and 38. At the time it was suspected that these individuals were a part of a gang responsible for robbing British American Tobacco (BAT) vehicles around Hazyview. The arrests were the result of a combined effort of the Crime Intelligence Unit and Tactical Response Team (TRT). Three of the men, Siyanda Hlatshwayo (29), Kgopotso Shube (23) and Sipho Mokoena (30) were found in possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. They were arrested on June 9. The trio appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on June 12. Also read: Attackers to spend Christmas behind bars The other eight suspects were nabbed in the early hours of June 13 in different locations in KaBokweni, Pienaar, Masoyi and Hazyview. Three assault rifles were recovered as well as an AK-47, two pistols and dagga. All of the accused appeared in court on June 14 in KaBokweni, KaNyamazane, Masoyi and Hazyview on charges of possession of unlicensed firearms, armed robbery and the possession of dagga. The accused also appeared in the Hazyview Magistrate’s Court on allegations of robbing the BAT vehicles. A white Mercedes, a blue Ford Focus, an Audi and a Jeep Cherokee were involved in a CIT Heist. They ambushed a security vehicle at around 06:10 on the R537. The white Mercedes-Benz rammed into the security vehicle which was driving towards Lydenburg, causing it to overturn. The gang proceeded to shoot at the guards. They held them up at gunpoint and assaulted some with the butts of their weapons. The suspects used explosives to access the money bags in the back of the van, then fled the scene. Police found the Jeep Cherokee abandoned on the N4 near the Sudwala Caves turn-off. Inside they retrieved some of the money, firearms and explosives. The guards were treated for their wounds. None of them sustained any gunshot wounds and all were stable. The suspects shot a 44-year-old man while fleeing. The incident occurred in Sir Percy Fitzpatrick. Also read: Brig. Gerrie Agenbag encourages community to spend time with their families Another cash-in-transit heist occurred at about 13:15 on the N4 between Matsulu and KaNyamazane. It involved 10 suspects. They used a black Mercedes, two BMWs and a white bakkie. The suspects opened fire on a Fidelity Security armoured bakkie, which was coming from Malalane and heading towards Mbombela, until it came to halt. They forced out the guards, blasted the vehicle using explosives and fled with an undisclosed amount of cash. The driver was assaulted, but not seriously injured and was taken to hospital for observations.  About 10 suspects who were driving in four vehicles opened fire on a Fidelity Security armoured bakkie until it came to a halt. The suspects were driving a black Mercedes, two BMWs and a white bakkie. The guards firearms were taken and a Fidelity guard was injured. The suspects escaped with an undisclosed amount of cash.  It was revealed that the white bakkie in the heist of July 26 belonged to two innocent civilians, André Redman and Attie Engelbrecht. The two got very close to the proximity of the heist. By remaining calm and being alert the two managed to avoid harm.  On July 29 in the afternoon, three suspects shot a G4S Security guard four times in the legs after he had collected cash from a shop at Twin City shopping centre. The guard kept running despite his wounds and returned fire. The suspects fled in a blue Citi Golf which was heading in the direction of Graskop without the cash and the guard was rushed to Mediclinic Nelspruit.  A G4S Security guard was ambushed by six suspects as he walked from Cashbuild towards his vehicle. According to a source close to the investigation, the guard was robbed of his firearm and an undisclosed amount of cash. No injuries were reported. Also read:SAPS and community members clamp down on Fireworks The suspects fled in a white Toyota Hilux believed to have been used in a Fidelity CIT heist which occurred on September 11. The Fidelity vehicle came under fire on the Dwarsloop road when a blue Golf and a white Toyota Hilux double-cab containing six suspects attempted to ambush the vehicle. The Fidelity vehicle managed to ram the Golf off the road before rolling. The suspects proceeded to bomb the vehicle before fleeing the scene with an undisclosed amount of cash in the Toyota.  In the afternoon at around 17:40, 11 to 15 suspects armed with AK-47 and R5 rifles, ambushed an SBV vehicle on the road from Matsulu. The SBV vehicle was carrying an undisclosed amount of cash. A white Mercedes overtook the SBV truck and started firing shots at it. The SBV vehicle subsequently stopped . One of the passengers ran away and was shot in the back. Both guards were disarmed and an R5 was taken. They then used explosives to gain access to an undisclosed amount of cash. They sped off in the Mercedes as well as a charcoal-coloured sedan and a red Volkswagen Golf. The R5 was later recovered. The wounded guard was rushed to hospital.  A civilian was shot and killed and another injured after CIT robbers set their vision on the KaMhlushwa Sasol Garage. Two men who were filling up their cars were shot at. One was killed and another hospitalised. The suspects fled the scene in a white ford Bantam.  At 08:45 a CIT heist occurred when security officials were busy with a pension payout. Ten unknown armed men stormed the security guards while they were depositing money into the machines. The suspects also tried to break into the rear of the security van but failed. They proceeded to turn their attention to the machines and managed to successfully break them. The suspects took a security guard hostage and fired five shots before leaving. The suspects were seen fleeing in a brown Mercedes-Benz and a Sassa vehicle after dropping off the security guard at the gate. The Sassa-branded bakkie was recovered abandoned a couple of metres from scene. More than 10 men fired on a G4S security vehicle. The suspects were travelling in two white bakkies, a Toyota Hilux and an Isuzu, as well as a Jeep Cherokee. They fired on the security vehicle until it came to a halt and forced the driver and crew member out. Both men were assaulted but the suspects left the scene without stealing any money. The victims were taken to hospital, though they did not suffer serious injuries.  A gang of approximately 10 men carried out a cash-in-transit heist in Mbombela on Thursday, November 30. The suspects fled the scene in two white BMW’s an X5 and seven series. Ten suspects robbed a cash-in-transit Fidelity Security vehicle near KaBokweni. The security vehicle was collecting money around KaBokweni when suspects in a white Audi started shooting at it. The vehicle was forced to stop. Two charcoal-coloured Mercedes-Benzes and a white one also joined in. Three guards were forced to get out of the van. They then blasted the safe inside the Fidelity van and fled with an undisclosed amount of cash.