 MBOMBELA – The graduation ceremony for the Dei Gratia Hair and Beauty Academy class of 2017 was held at Hillicks Model and Talent agency on December 15. Guests at the ceremony were treated to a hair show which allowed the students to showcase what they had learned throughout the year. Principal of Dei Gratia, Genevieve Stander spoke at length about the show saying: “Each student had to find someone to be their model. They were then responsible for doing the hair, make-up and clothes of that individual according to the theme of the show urban jungle.” The hair show was proceeded by the keynote address by CEO of Dei Gratia Training and Development Solutions, Nic van der Walt. Also read: Ladies treated to hair-health workshop at Gary Rom Crossings Van der Walt congratulated the students on their achievements. He also urged them to start planing for their future, “Tonight symbolises the ending of one era and the beginning of a new one. Your time as students is done. Now you must go out and be the leaders, doers and achievers within your chosen field so that you can make an impact on the world.” The certificates were handed out by CEO of Dei Gratia Hair and Beauty Academy, Terry Tambo. A number of special awards were also handed out during this ceremony. The award for the best overall student went to Marlizane Venter. The award for the best theoretical knowledge and the award for the best practical application of that knowledge went to Audrey Oosthuiszen and Michell Pienaar, respectively. The award for the most creative student went to Carmen du Toit while the award for the student who showed the most improvement went to Lorrain Ground. Also read: Fact: Mbombela has amazing hair artists Stander indicated that she had every faith in her students’ abilities:”Now that the learners finished the course I can see a bright future for each and every one of them,” she said. Also read: Three smart ways to use your hair oils The ceremony ended with Stander offering thanks to a number of individuals. Guests were then invited to enjoy platters of finger food and various beverages while they mingled with one another.