 Ms Cindy Stewart of Boksburg’s Facebook post before the Viljoens refunded her investment PART 1 Ms Cindy Stewart
Her former husband, Mr Reg Stewart, went to the extreme to get their investment back and created an “Anti-Tammy Taylor” website. It was only deactivated last month after they were reimbursed the R100 000 they invested in the franchise. “They eventually paid us back our money, but I am without my nail salon in Boksburg,” she said. “I have no hard feelings for the Viljoens,” said her husband. “I only wanted my money back.” Ms Solana du Plessis
Last year she wrote to the Tammy Taylor head office in the United States about the non-availability of its stock in South Africa and said its acrylic nail products’ quality is far above other market-related products in the country, but she would refuse to buy from the Viljoen couple again. According to her, they sent her an invoice for her order which she paid in full a day after receiving it. A week before the products arrived she received another invoice with a 40 per cent increase. She contacted them and explained that nobody notified her of a price increase and she had already paid for the products invoiced. “Apart from the fact that they are unprofessional, they are also downright rude and arrogant,” Du Plessis wrote. “At first they seem like the nicest people, but when you query something about a product or order, you are attacked with rude comments.” Ms Melany Viljoen singing the praise of her husband on Instagram Ms Nelani Struwig
She attended a nail-technician course in February 2016 and paid R11 500 a month before she did the course. At that stage she was pregnant, and Peet agreed for her to do Tammy Taylor Nails from her home in Middelburg. A day before the course started she was told to pay an additional R1 600 for “import expenses”. Her husband, a HR manager, queried this with Peet and it was dropped. Eventually she was informed that she could not write the qualification exam for her certificate, because somebody else had opened a Tammy Taylor SA franchise in Middelburg. “Without the certificate, I cannot do nails in Middelburg. I spent all that money on the course and then they just told me I cannot work in my hometown,” Struwig said. Neither of the Viljoens have accepted her calls since then and they flatly ignore her WhatsApp messages. “I can see they read it, but they do not get back to me. I lost all that money and all efforts to get it back were in vain.” Mr Peet Viljoen, the poster boy for Tammy Taylor Nails in South Africa *Diane*
She asked not to be named for fear that harm may come to her family. She worked from Centurion and spent in excess of R17 000 for the training course and buying of stock. Diane decided to sever links with Tammy Taylor after an incident when she also queried the 40 per cent increase in the price of products after her invoice had already been paid, and the fact that they had to wait very long for delivery. Diane told Lowvelder about an incident during training that made her finally decide she had enough. “Melany told Peet that I am the one who is not happy with the extra payment – in front of the students and clients,” she said. “So he decided it is a good time to discuss this matter in class! I did not want to argue with him and kept quiet as he went on and on about his financial background and law degree.” A website was launched against Mr Viljoen, but has since been removed According to Diane, her client (the model she had to practice on) started feeling uncomfortable and asked him, very politely, if he could please discuss this personal matter outside. “He started raising his voice, screaming eventually, and everybody in class watched and listened in shock. He told her to shut up, not to say a word and that she was nothing more than a hand puppet,” Diane explained. She said she should actually have taken her stuff and left there and then, but having already paid R15 000 for the training she knew she would not see a cent of her money again, so she decided to finish the course. Ms Leandi van der Walt
She is the owner of the Mediskinlaser Clinic in Pretoria and enrolled one of her employees, Ms Nomsa Tshabalala, in February last year for the course to be trained with Tammy Taylor. According to Tshabalala, the first weekend of training was good, but when she returned for the next round on February 13, it was a totally different story. “Mel (Melany), the trainer, gave me almost no attention, even when she knew that I am a beginner, even my model noticed it,” she said. “Then, while busy we were disturbed by Mel’s husband Peet screaming and shouting at one of the trainees’ models.” Ms Melany Viljoen in front of their billboard in the east of Pretoria According to Tshabalala, he was extremely rude and, “for him screaming at a woman was shocking!” Her model called Melany over and told her that she felt that they given the other women more attention on how to do the nails and processes than her. “Mel told her that nails is not in my blood and that I should stick to do what I am doing currently as I am too stupid to do acrylic nails,” said Tshabalala. “Both my models can testify her attitude towards me. I felt that this was racism in every form and felt ashamed and uncomfortable in the course. I have never been treated this way,” she said. Van der Walt told Lowvelder the Viljoen couple should thank their stars that Tshabalala, who still works at the Mediskinlaser Clinic, had not laid charges of racism against them. She added that she also had had a run in with Peet, who phoned her one night screaming and shouting at her because she tried to buy stock from another salon. “Nobody ever treated me like that,” Van der Walt said. “He treated me like a criminal and all I did was try to find stock for my clients.” She said they lost R16 000, but regard it as a drop in the ocean compared to what other people lost. Ms Samantha Potgieter
Potgieter left her previous job in Cape Town for her new exciting business venture and paid more than R114 000 for the Tammy Taylor franchise spanning from Waterkant Street, Green Point up to Bantry Bay. Then she discovered that the franchise was also sold to somebody else. “I lost everything. They totally ruined me and I am now busy taking legal advice,” she said. She told Lowvelder she became scared of Peet when he started sending her “creepy” messages like, “You crossed my dark side”. The Viljoen couple on holiday at a luxurious resort in Mexico Ms Maryka and Mr Collin Crear
Maryka managed the Moreletta Park salon in Rubinstein Road, Pretoria on behalf of the Viljoen couple and she also held 40 per cent shares in the business valued at R100 000. At the end of November R55 000 went missing from the Maryka Crear t/a Tammy Taylor account and she was accused of stealing it. She no longer wanted to work there as a result of the accusations – as she described it in her statement as “emotional abuse” – and entered into an agreement that she would be paid out her R100 000 in five payments of R20 000 each. The Viljoen couple were very proud to show off their brand new Range Rover Sport In December Peet messaged her that he would not pay the outstanding R80 000 and would open a theft case against her. According to Maryka, the “missing” amount of R55 000 reflected on the business account on November 27 due to the fact that the credit-card machine was only settled after she had contacted the bank realising that there was money not showing in the business account. Collin said they were refunded with an initial payment of R20 000 and thereafter with another R12 000, but a total of R58 000 is still outstanding. They are also stuck with R25 000 worth of stock products that are worthless to them. “Peet and Melany ruined us financially,” he said. “I am currently under debt counselling.” The couple celebrated their second honeymoon at the Royal Hawaiian, a Luxury Collection resort belonging to Sheraton Hotels and Resorts PART 3