No-one thinks about spending time with their insurer on a sunny day, but this is one relationship that will, without a doubt, be there for you when your blue skies turn to grey, and a little bit of love will go a long way.Here are a few tips to help make your insurance simpler, but also more effective so that you get the best out of your insurance:New version available Always keep your information up to date. Although some changes may seem minor, it could impact your claim, or monthly premium. Whether you moved to a new address, work closer to home, installed an electric motor on your gate, or even tied the knot. Be sure to share the highlights and seemingly uninteresting moments with your insurer.Say my name Make sure to specify any extras or accessories from ABS breaks on your new car to your top of the range sound system to ensure that you are covered for their entire value and don t have any surprises waiting if you need to claim. Remember, insurers can only protect what they know.ALSO READ: Insurance contracts: An introductionDon t let it slip away Keep your original slips for big purchases, including replacing your tyres, tinting your windows or installing an alarm system. If you re feeling particularly organised, you can even keep digital copies in a file on the Cloud to ensure everything is easily accessible. Keeping these slips ensures that you can prove the value of the item if you ever need to claim for it.Bundle it together Insurers often provide a variety of discounts or price breaks for customers who bundle insurance with other policies. For instance, if you insure your four-wheeled wonder under comprehensive cover, you can get the same care for your smart watch, Nikon camera, 60&#8243; UHD curved TV or even your hearing aid.Cheque yourself Make sure your premiums are always paid. If you re behind on any payments, chances are you re probably not covered in case something happens. Although some insurers have a grace period in place for those difficult months, rather advise your insurer before your cover gets cut if you can t pay your premium.ALSO READ: Insurance tips for holidaymakers By spending just a tad more time, you ll ensure to get the most out of your insurance, says Head of Legal at King Price, Wynand van Vuuren. Technology is getting faster, shopping queues are going virtual and satisfaction now need to be immediate, which is why it s vital to ensure that your insurance relationship keeps up with the times to safeguard what s nearest and dearest. Original press release by MyNewsRoom