The first Grand Lodge was founded in London, England in 1717 and its current worldwide membership totals more than six million. As a fraternal organisation, it unites men of good character who share a belief in the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of mankind, although members are of different religious, ethnic or social backgrounds.The traditions of the organisation are founded upon the building of King Solomon s temple and its fraternal ceremonies use the working tools of stonemasons to symbolise moral lessons and truths.Membership is not meant to interfere with an individual s commitment to his faith, family or occupation, but rather to create a positive environment that reminds every Mason of his duty to God, community, family and himself.The Astrea Lodge &#8211; consecrated January 21, 1905The railway to Delagoa Bay was a very important link with Louren o Marques in the early years of the 20th century, with the repair and maintenance depot at Waterval Boven contributing to the development of that town as a key centre on the route.And although the Lodge first met, for convenience, at Machadodorp, in the travellers&#8217; sample room of the Eastern Hotel, it soon moved to Waterval Boven, where it built its own premises, still in use today.The origin of the name is uncertain, although the secretary has suggested a possible link via the founders, several of whom, including the Charter Master, came from Russia where the Grand Lodge Astrea was formed, with headquarters in St Petersburg in 1815 but lasted only until 1822, when Freemasonry was proscribed in Russia. The Lodge crest includes an eagle and an eight-pointed star, and the words &#8220;per ardua ad astra&#8221;, perhaps anticipatory of something less earthbound than a railway!Although Waterval Boven has become less important as a railway centre there have always been the stalwarts to keep it going. One of these, W Bro Hugo Minnaar (WM 1956/8) who later moved to Pretoria attained Grand Rank in 1972.Another, W Bro JC ViIjoen (WM 1967/8) has been secretary of Astrea Lodge for many years, and has seen it through interesting times, including strong opposition from the local predikant in 1979, and difficulties with the premises which required support from the District Heritage Fund.Astrea Lodge reports into the United Grand Lodge of England. Famous FreemasonsBenjamin FranklinBenjamin Franklin was one of the founding fathers of the United States of America, a hero of the revolutionary war and an inventor.As a scientist, he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity. As an inventor, he is known for the lightning rod and bifocals. He was inducted in 1730.George WashingtonGeorge Washington was the first president of the United States, the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, and one of the founding fathers of the United States.He presided over the convention that drafted the United States Constitution. He was inducted on November 4, 1752 and was given the rank of Master Mason within a year. Washington performed Masonic rites at the laying of the USA Capitol s cornerstone on September 18, 1793.Wolfgang Amadeus MozartWolfgang Amadeus Mozart was a prolific and influential composer of the Classical era. Mozart showed prodigious ability from his earliest childhood. Already competent on keyboard and violin, he composed from the age of five and performed before European royalty. He was a part of the Zur Wohlt tigkeit (Charity) Lodge, Austria and was initiated on December 14, 1784.Sim n Bol var &#8211; From: emaze.comSim n Bol var was a South American liberator and political leader, making him is one of the great heroes of the struggle for independence from the Spanish Empire. His lodge, the Masonic Lodge Lauraro out of Cadiz in Spain, was also home to many other South American founding fathers.He was inducted in 1803 and in April 1824, Sim n Bol var was given the 33rd degree of Inspector General Honorary.Mark TwainLiterary giant Mark Twain was a member of the Polar Star Lodge No. 79, A F &amp; A M in St Louis, and became a Master Mason within a few months of joining. At one stage he was suspended for not paying his dues but was reinstated shortly thereafter. He was initiated on May 22, 1861 and resigned in 1867.Winston ChurchillWinston Churchill contributed to Freemasonry his entire life. Along with being a two-time British prime minister and honorary citizen of the United States, Churchill was a member of the Studholme Mason Lodge No. 1591 in England.He was inducted on May 24, 1901 and resigned in 1912, but continued to contribute to Freemasonry throughout his life.J Edgar Hoover &#8211; From: New HistorianJ Edgar Hoover may have created the FBI, but he is said to have received more accolades for his time spent as a Mason. He was inducted in 1920 and became a Master Mason at age 25. In 1855 he became a Thirty-Third Degree Inspector General Honorary and was given the Grand Cross of Honor &#8211; the highest recognition by the Scottish Rite &#8211; in 1965. There is a room in the Mason s House of the Temple dedicated to him.Thurgood Marshall &#8211; From: History.comThurgood Marshall was an associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, serving from October 1967 to October 1991. Marshall was the Court s 96th justice and its first African-American justice.Before becoming a judge, Marshall was a lawyer who was best known for his high success rate in arguing before the Supreme Court and for the victory in Brown vs Board of Education, a decision that desegregated public schools.The members of Freemasonry are looking to attract new and prospective members to join their fraternity. The Astrea Freemasonry is inviting all men older than 21 who are interested, to join them at their open day. Partners and wives are welcome to join their husbands or partners to learn the meaning of being a Freemason s wife. The event will take place on July 29 at the Masonic Hall at 3 Seventh Street in Waterfall Boven between 10:00 and 14:30.To review information source, or to find out more, visit: www.thisisfreemasonry.org www.dglsanorth.org.za www.ugle.org.uk