1. Cash in hand There are stalls set up that sell a variety of items ranging from food, drinks, artwork and books. Local business owners showcase their original and handmade goods that you wouldn&#8217;t want to miss out on.2. An empty stomach Tantalise your taste buds with curry and rice, koeksisters, freshly fried chips, pancakes and boerewors rolls &#8211; just to name a few. Treat yourself to original cuisine that will be sure to fill your belly and leave you wanting more.3. Pocket tissues/wet wipes The hustle and bustle of other festivalgoers causes a lot of dust. For this reason, having pocket wipes or tissues will come in handy, especially for keeping things clean. 4. Closed, flat shoes You&#8217;ll be on your feet, walking from place to place during the festival. For your comfort and safety, wearing closed, flat shoes is the best choice. 5. Earplugs There will be tons of performances from artists around the country happening throughout the four days. While on the grounds, the sound from performances can damage your hearing if you get too close to the speakers.6. Sunscreen Mpumalanga (where the sun rises) lives up to its name even in winter. If you&#8217;ll be attending the Innibos festival during the day, sunscreen will help protect your skin against the harsh winter sun and prevent nasty sunburn.7. Sun hat or cap Pair up your sun hat/cap with your sunscreen for the ultimate protection while enjoying the festival&#8217;s activities.8. No backpack/ handbag With about 100 000 guests attending the festival, each day is jam-packed with lots of people. Carrying a backpack or handbag makes you an easy target for pickpocketing, so invest in a fanny pack instead.9. Carry a warm jersey or jacket As the evening creeps in, temperatures will drop. Having a jersey or jacket will keep you warm throughout the night, so you can enjoy yourself without worrying about catching a cold.10. Comfortable clothing You&#8217;ll be moving about and doing a lot of activities throughout Innibos. Being comfortable in what you&#8217;re wearing will make your time all the more breezy.