MBOMBELA &#8211; Crafters from all over South Africa came to display their wares. Artworks displayed a wealth of talent. John Anthony Boerma and Jan Bhuda, who collaborated to form Art Aid, worked tirelessly to make the project a success. The competition drew almost 800 entries. The evening was spectacular. Traditional drums beat into the night, accompanied by soaring angelic voices and tribal dancers.The purpose of the awards was to raise awareness about arts and crafts, an important form of expression sometimes overlooked due to crafters not having access to the most appropriate channels. Supporting young talent was also an important factor, as was providing a platform to develop the appropriate skills and knowledge relevant to crafters. Some of the pieces on offer were breathtaking. An electric-blue vase by Dale Lambert, as thin as gossamer, proudly stood alongside a black clay vessel whose fine, sheer walls defied a robust, strong look.Wall hangings comprising rich and vibrant tapestries, some woven, some beaded, were rich in colour, cultural heritage and beauty. Stuffed, embroidered toy elephants to die for, a galvanised steel bull, carved wooden figurines, a felt bull and a finely carved fish-bone crochet hook were among the treasures and delights on offer. Wire works, beaded monkeys, teapots, carved wooden walking sticks and tapestries in all shapes, colours and sizes, made for a fascinating and captivating event, and the awards ceremony a heart-warming affair. Many of these incredible pieces took years to complete.Pauline Blignaut&#8217;s crocheted blanket was indeed a revelation, a portrayal of a family passed down over 120 years. She collected the wool for the blanket for 34 years, and it depicted the rich history of her family&#8217;s move from Carolina to Badplaas in 1910. One of the squares is an image depicting an ox wagon, and the story behind this is about a wedding cake. The family kept the wedding cake on a ledge under the ox wagon, and along the way the sheep became tired and were placed inside the wagon to rest. Of course, sheep will do what sheep will do, and every now and again the cake was the unfortunate recipient of sheep urine. By the time the wedding came around, the cake no longer tasted quite like wedding cake. Each crocheted square was a different shade. Printed, vintage, black-and-white photos depicting the history of this family were incredibly moving.The winner of the platinum prize was Thami Kiti for his carved, wooden walking sticks. The gold prize went to Vinah Ndwandwe for her man-sized basket. Silver went to Elizabeth Msiza for her beaded blanket. The special prize for a local artists was awarded to Mbombela&#8217; Hannelie Bosch for her regal and lovely porcelain pipes. The second award for innovative and new concept was given to Nkuli Mlangen for her woven carpet. The organisers are looking forward to doing it all again next year, and have every faith that it will grow to include an even greater number of talented artists and crafters entering their works.