BARBERTON &#8211; Community members have been living in fear due to the return of the Panga Gang, which is giving residents sleepless nights after it started to make headlines in 2015.It is alleged that the gang is attacking people in the streets at night and in taverns, assaulting them and robbing them of their belongings.Mpumalanga News noted that security has been beefed up for the past three weeks as the SAPS embarked on Operation Thunderstorm to reduce crime. Police are patrolling, conducting roadblocks and a helicopter is hovering above the township. The extra security measures were put in place after incidents of murder were on the increase last month.Even though security has been enhanced, the people are still wary of the gangsters. Mpumalanga News interacted with the residents in various sections who voiced different views. One of the community members, who claimed that he no longer feels safe, said, &#8220;Our township is no longer the same.ALSO READ: Woman attacked with a panga at a birthday partyWe used to go about in the streets at night freely, but now things have changed. We are even scared to go and buy bread at night at nearby stores because you don&#8217;t what is going to happen. Police are patrolling at night, but my biggest fear is at the crack of dawn, when they are not visible.&#8220;I work as a security guard in Mbombela and I board a bus very early in the morning. Every day when I leave my house, I make sure that I say goodbye to my wife and children because one day I might not come back alive, due to the Panga Gang,&#8221; he explained.The people appeal to the provincial commissioner, Gen Mondli Zuma, and the MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Mr Pat Ngomane, to visit this township.&#8220;Our leaders must not turn a blind eye to this matter, as innocent people are dying and the worst part of it is that some of the police officers are not doing justice to the community, as they are accused of working with the criminals.We are not safe at all, as people are even attacked by the gang in taverns. The next thing people will be attacked in churches. &#8220;Our leaders must act fast and hold a crime imbizo so that we can find a solution to this matter. Those who will be found to be involved in the gang must rot in jail,&#8221; said a concerned resident, Ms Nthabiseng Pisane.ALSO READ: Panga-gang strikes again shortly after arrest of one memberSome of the residents told this newspaper that they had lost faith in the police and said mob justice was the only solution that would make this township a crime-free zone.Mr Ronald Mbuli said, &#8220;I believe the community can win this battle.&#8220;We have given the police a chance to do their work, but it seems like the justice system is failing us. Some of the members of the gang are known in the community, it&#8217;s just that we are scared to approach them, but if we can unite as a community, we can win this battle.&#8220;Mob justice seems to be our only option, if the police don&#8217;t act quickly. The people of Elukwatini managed to do away with the Wrong Turns gangsters. We don&#8217;t owe them anything.&#8221;