In winter, nothing quite beats snuggling up on the couch with a hot cup of tea with a beautiful blanket wrapped around your legs. As your body warms up, you start feeling content and feel the stress of daily life drift away.Whether you re taking some time off this winter to rejuvenate your body and mind or making your home your sanctuary on the weekends, never underestimate the power of a warm, comforting blanket or a beautiful winter sheet on your bed.Here are a few tips from Sheet Street to beautify your home this winter and keep the cold at bay:1.Under the sheetsSummer and winter are two vastly different seasons, so it only makes sense that your sheets are different too. A winter fitted or flat sheet can make world of difference to not only the overall winter style of your bedroom but they will keep you much warmer at night, ensuring a good night s sleep. Sheet Street s winter sheets are made from a super soft fabrics and come in a range of sizes, colours and patterns. Buy any two winter sheets from Sheet Street and save R40! Tip: Opt for neutral colours that way you can go for bold colours for your duvet.&nbsp;2.Double the warmthSitting on the couch with that hot cup of your coffee, watching your favourite TV show isn t complete without a warm, cosy blanket. Sheet Street is allowing you double up on the warmth when you buy any two plain flannel blankets and save R70. Keep one blanket on the couch and one on your bed for those extra chilly nights. Tip: Go for the bolder colours like red for your couch to brighten up the space.3.Toss it on the tableSide tables are very useful little accessories for the bedroom or even the living room not only do they provide space for your special touches like lamps, photo frames or books, they also give a finishing touch to the room. Sheet Street has a gorgeous doubled slated side table for R299.99 that will not only add a wintery warmth to the room but they have enough space to store those flannel blankets.4.Fitted or flat?You can never go wrong with 100% cotton sheets, whether they are fitted, flat or a basecover buy any two and save R40. Cotton always breathe well so if you re looking for something cooler under all the winter duvets or blankets, cotton is the way to go.&nbsp;Beat the chill this winter season. Visit your nearest Sheet Street and double up on these winter warmers.