Click here to visit their website Our accreditation: Alive in Tourism is not simply &#8220;endorsed&#8221;, our accreditation lies directly with CATHSSETA (the SETA overseeing training for guiding and hospitality qualifications in South Africa). SAQA registration number: 613/P/0000115/2008. The introductory and advanced courses prepare candidates for CATHSSETA programmes; the only recognised national qualifications in the tourism and hospitality industry. The foundational platform: The operation provides a foundational platform for vital combinations of skills involving exposure to the hospitality industry at various levels. This exposure on a rotational basis allows scholars to acquire experience in various environments within hospitality and tourism. Scholars get a first-hand understanding of different markets and their respective clients in the tourism industry. Functions and events, which are part of daily exposure, are often combined in hospitality and as such, form a critical part of tourism as a whole. Practical tourism experience: Intricately interwoven with hospitality including accommodation, food and beverage are the guided experiences and other relevant entertaining activities at any tourism destination. These play a central role in general tourism, probably being the main consideration for many international and local tourists in making their destination decisions.The Alive in Tourism training courses offer, in various combinations, exposure to some of the best safari and big game activities available in Africa. The programme combines the coordination of activities within the tourism industry providing solid training combined with experience of various relevant aspects in preparing future multiskilled professionals. Included are game drives in open 4x4s, walking safaris, night drives, elephant-back safaris, horseback safaris, day tours, airport transfers, day-spa treatments and cultural experiences. Industry-driven skills: The training programmes directly address industry needs in providing a fully-rounded, multiskilled education and qualification to students ensuring that they are suitably equipped to cope with the ever-changing tourism industry. The Alive in Tourism training courses focus on equipping trainees to be multiskilled, taking into account the modern demands of the hospitality, tourism and guiding industry as a whole.Structured by CEO Joleen du Plessis, founder and training expert having spent 25 years in the tourism industry, with input from other industry leaders, these comprehensive hospitality and tourism courses will ensure the best possibility of employment in the industry. After scholars have successfully completed the one-year Alive in Tourism training course, they will be able to offer more than most employees for they will not only have the essential knowledge, skills and the workplace experience at a fully functioning establishment, but also will be qualified for the most widely required &#8220;cluster&#8221; of tourism skills including: Table attendant Bar attendant Room attendant Laundry assistant Assistant chef Assistant housekeeper Receptionist Nature site guide Culture site guide.Courses focus on individual tuition, only accepting a maximum of 10 on any one intake. So don t delay, book today!