SKUKUZA &#8211; The SANParks&#8217; KNP K9 unit is set to receive a financial boost after a team of seasoned mountaineers complete the 230-kilometre Drakensberg Grand Traverse (DGT). The team started today from Witsieshoek and plan to complete the Climb for K9 on June 7.Sani Pass will be the resupply location.The three men have more than 60 combined years of mountaineering experience.Ian Shooter (left) and Jeffrey MathebulaThe DGT is a hike along the escarpment of the remotest parts of the Drakenberg range, where it shares a border with Lesotho. At least five summits will be climbed.The route will take them up the peaks of Mont Aux Sources, Champagne Castle, Mafadi and Giant&#8217;s Castle.Cathedral rangeThey will also summit Thabana Ntlenyama (3 482 metres), the highest point in Africa south of Kilimanjaro. Finally, they will descend near Underberg.The team is committed to raising awareness of threats to nature, such as poaching of endangered species and the pollution of water in the main water catchment areas that feed rivers in KwaZulu-Natal.The three mountaineers met the manager of the SANParks KNP K9 unit, Johan de Beer, and the dogs in the Kruger National Park (KNP) on Thursday.Ian Shooter (left) and Grant Melville at KNP K9-CentreJeffrey was assigned a task at the K9-unit! A demonstration with one of the bite-dogs.During this visit, Grant Melville from Umhlanga Rocks said the team wants to make a positive contribution to the work of the K9 unit.Johan de Beer with a satellite harnass that can be fit to the anti-poaching dogs when they are working in the veld.&#8220;Lots of people are blind to the bigger picture of what is happening with conservation at present. We need to create awareness,&#8221; said Melville.During the hike, the team will stop at the Tugela Falls, the second-highest waterfall in the world. &#8220;You don&#8217;t want to fall down there,&#8221; said Melville.He said people often think that the Drakensberg is flat on the top, but it is very uneven and there are many rivers. &#8220;The scenery is spectacular,&#8221; remarked Melville.The average altitude of the hike is 3 000 metres. Mafadi Peak has an altitude of 3 400 metres. The team is expecting cold weather conditions. One metre of snow has already fallen.The Kwa Zulu Natal branch of the Honorary Rangers is using the occassion of the Climb for K9 to raise funds and other items on the wish list of the K9-unit.Lene Hansen with one of the dog travelling boxes that the branch of the Kwa Zulu Natal SANParks Honorary Rangers donated to the unit.&#8220;It is quite trying walking through snow,&#8221; said Melville. He will be taking his cue from Shooter and Mthabela, who grew up in the areas around the DGT. &#8220;It is easy to get lost out there, but my teammates are knowledgeable about the area.&#8221; Members of the public are requested to sponsor the hikers R1 a kilometre. Their target is R500 000. The project is supported by the SANParks Honorary Rangers, KZN region. Contributions to the fund-raising can be made by making a donation to SANParks Honorary Rangers Nedbank account 1585 392 448; branch code 158550. Reference: your name; KZN-DGT.K9. If you want to make a contribution of supplies please contact the team on ClimbforK9@gmail.com.