The response to the memoranda of demands served on NGC by the ANC Youth League, Sanco and the EFF was made in a joint statement to the media this afternoon.All stakeholders took part including the executive mayor, the MEC of Culture, Sport and Recreation, Ancyl, Sanco, EFF, Jabulane Mabilane, black golfers, Robert Gumede and NGC.According to a source inside the meeting, all parties welcomed the change and agreed that the assault is a matter for the police and must be separated from the transformation of the golf club.Read and watch the coverage of the anti-racism march to NGC here: The catalyst to the protest march is believed to have been millionaire businessman Robert Gumede&#8217;s withdrawal of sponsorship for the annual Jock of the Bushveld golf tournament hosted by NGC. The march coincided with the Friday of the well-known event.Gumede said he could simply not stand back and allow the young Mabilane to be treated in such a bad way.I am very disappointed by the findings of the inquiry. I pulled out the money for the Jock of the Bushveld tournament because of the incident. It is no secret, Gumede told Lowvelder. The most important thing is that the march happened peacefully. It was not about destruction of the course, it was about showing the club we are better than the four white golfers (involved in the incident). Read about the findings of the inquiry below: He confirmed that he had organised for a company to clean up any rubbish left behind by the protesters during the march of May 12.Because of the agreement between all stakeholders released today, Gumede said he is positive for the future transformation in sport in the province and South Africa. Sport can be a racial breaker, it can breach all the gulfs between people. For the first time in South African golf, change like this is happening. It won t stop in Mbombela, Mpumalanga is going to be the mirror for the rest of the country, he said.&#8220;I would like to thank Ancyl , EFF, Sanco, black pro golfers and civil society for having marched for change at NGC. This is their victory for justice and transformation.&#8221;Response to demands served on Nelspruit Golf Club:1. Expel the 4 white golfers with immediate effect &#8211; All four white members involved in the alleged assault were asked to resign and have done so. 2. Declare the unlawful and biased enquiry null and void &#8211; Resolution to be passed at the next executive meeting that the committee does not accept the decision of the independent inquiry. 3. NGC Committee to stand down and set up a 50/50 new committee of blacks and whites 4. Employment of a black assistant manager 5. Employment of core caddies with benefits (medical) 6. Staff members benefits and increase in salaries 7. Black membership fees to be reduced by 50 per cent for five (5) years until their membership is at least equal to whites 8. Black membership barrier to be lifted &#8211; It was agreed that there are currently no membership barriers in place and the process of application will be revisited to ensure it is easy and streamlined. 9. Transformation procurement policy to favour blacks for goods and services 10. The club to implement a community based Corporate Social Investment (CSI) 11. Change the name of the club &#8211; Nelspruit Golf Club to change its name to align itself with the renaming of the city. 12. The club to host an annual Anti-Racism Awareness Golf Day on October 15 13. Joint Media Statement &#8211; All stakeholders took part including the mayor, MEC of Culture, Sport and Recreation, Ancyl, Sanco, EFF, Jabulane Mabilane, black golfers, Robert Gumede and NGC. 14. Improve caddie facilities 15. The NGC Constitution and Code of Conduct &#8211; These two documents are to be revised and updated to allow for transformation and development, as well as ensuring there is no discrimination of any race, gender or religion.Over and above the 15-point agreement, NGC has come up and will begin implementing a Development and Transformation Plan, dealing with membership, structure, workforce and caddies. It has already been approved by club membership.*See Friday&#8217;s edition of Lowvelder for all details of the agreement as well as exclusive comment from involved parties. To read previous online articles about the above matter, please follow the links below: PREVIEW: Result of disciplinary known tonight Golf assault inquiry postponed yet again&nbsp;