LYDENBURG Forty-six illegal immigrants appeared in the Lydenburg Magistrate s Court on Tuesday. The suspects were arrested last Thursday following a vigilant observation by an official of Thaba Chweu Local Municipality, and resulting actions from the local SAPS and officials from home affairs.According to Capt Alfred Moela, communications manager of Lydenburg SAPS, the suspects were apprehended after Themba Nkambule, the acting immigration officer, received a tip-off about two trucks transporting various people thought to be illegal immigrants.ALSO READ: Police cells overflowing with illegal immigrants He and his colleague, Ephraim Mohlala, immediately went to investigate the scene where the trucks were stationed. The suspects were arrested with the help of SAPS members, said Moela.The illegal immigrants included two Zambians, 14 Mozambicans, 17 Malawians and 13 Zimbabweans. The suspects claimed they were apparently contracted to work for a company called Optical Media Works which is supposed to install MTN lines in Mashishing and Lydenburg. Both trucks had Gauteng number plates. None of them had any required work permits or documentation. The apparent employer was also charged accordingly, said Moela.He said the arrest of the suspects may have possibly avoided crime-related incidents. These include rapes, theft, housebreakings and even murder. If these suspects commit a crime, we have no fingerprint links on account of them not being South African citizens. That in itself causes a major problem. One has to keep in mind that they come from different places all over Africa. They thus have different ideas of possibly committing crimes. ALSO READ: Borders a doorway for criminal activitiesAll suspects appeared in court on Tuesday for contravention of the Immigration Act and employing foreign nationals without work permits. Because of the large number of suspects, their next court dates were divided.Some appeared again on May 3, while others will appear on May 9, 16 and 22, said Moela. All 46 remain in police custody. The employer was granted bail and will appear in court again on May 22.