Although Facebook reiterates that fact that the privacy of its users is of utmost priority, there are some pieces of information that you should consider not sharing, such as your home address, or where you went to school. Here are 12 things you might want to delete from your Facebook profile immediately:1. Birthday Your birthday is one part of an important puzzle, which also includes your name and address. With this information, people can more easily access your bank account and personal details.2. Phone number The best-case scenario here is acquiring a polite admirer. Worst case scenario? A stalker who calls you nonstop.3. Most of your &#8220;friends&#8221; Robin Dunbar, an Oxford psychology professor, theorised that humans can maintain approximately 150 stable relationships.After analysing 3 375 Facebook users, he found that of their Facebook friends, 4,1% were considered dependable, and 13,6% exhibited sympathy during an emotional crisis. Removing the excess fat from the bulk can make for a healthier interaction with social media.4. Photographs of your child/young family members Acting director of the Oxford Internet Institute, Victoria Nash, asked a concerning question about this topic, and it s to do with consent:What type of information would children want to see about themselves online at a later date?Previous generations never needed to consider anything like this, but the dawn of the Internet and social media has given this question more importance.ALSO READ: The dangers of getting Cheeky on social media5. Where your child/young family member goes to school According to NSPCC, the number of recorded sexual offences has increased over the past year.The report says:Police recorded 36 429 sexual offences against children in the UK in 2013/14 in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland police recorded the highest number of sexual offences against children in the past decade. The last thing you want is to give an opportunity for a sexual predator to find out where your child goes to school.6. Location services Location services is only available on Android or iPhones.In 2015 TechCrunch reported that over 500 million users accessed Facebook solely from their mobile, which means that the same number potentially broadcast their location online, and anyone who may or may not wish you harm now knows where to find you.7. Your manager Facebook is a social-media platform, and to some degree your interactions ought to be relaxed, but the CEO of your company can access your wall, he/she has access to every single one of your drunken-party status updates &#8211; and yes that includes the classic one, moaning about work. What you say online could cost you your job.Yes, you can set your preferences to exclude your CEO from certain update, but isn&#8217;t just a hassle?ALSO READ: The 10 commandments of social media8. Stop tagging your location People forget that tagging your location at home actually gives away your address, again giving your exact location to stalkers or people who would want to harm you.9. When and where you&#8217;re going for holiday According to a financial website, holidaymakers who are burgled while they are on holiday may not get their insurance claim accepted if they posted their holiday plans on their social-media accounts before or during their trip.ALSO READ: Fired? For what I said on Facebook?10. Your relationship status If you want to celebrate the blossoming of a new relationship, don&#8217;t do it on Facebook. It may not work out, and the consequent &#8220;in a relationship&#8221; to &#8220;single&#8221; status change will make you feel worse than you already do and it also gets the tongues wagging, meaning that you will be bombarded with questions.11. Credit-card details Just don t do it. This is never a good idea. For obvious reasons, we will leave it there.12. Boarding-pass pictures Taking a photo of your boarding pass is often a way to brag about your holiday, but don&#8217;t be silly! The barcode on your boarding pass is unique, and can be used to find the information you gave to the flight company to access all of your details.