MBOMBELA &#8211; Three suspects held up the iStore personnel just after 09:00. One of the staff members, who kept her cellphone hidden, managed to report the incident on the public channel Zello.Social media reaction This was quickly and widely circulated on social media and created much public interest. It even resulted in several onlookers arriving at the mall to see what was happening.Mall management said a main concern was the number of people rushing to the scene instead of keeping away, after reading about the incident on social media, as they did not know who were the shoppers and who were robbers.Should the suspects have felt threatened in any way or their escape route blocked by the crowds, it may have caused further trouble.The video footage According to Capt Dawie Pretorius, nobody was harmed during the incident. He confirmed that video footage showed the three suspects scouting the shop by walking past one another in front of the store.The three men had firearms and forced the staff into the walk-in safe at the back of the shop and tied them up with cable ties,&#8221; Pretorius explained.The men started stealing the phones and placed them in a bag. Pretorius added that one staff member bravely grabbed the bag and ran back into the safe and closed the safe door which has a magnet-locking system.At this stage, one of the staff members reported the situation on the Zello channel. Most of Mbombela&#8217;s leading security companies, SAPS and emergency staff responded immediately. The suspects fled the scene soon thereafter.Mall security I&#8217;langa Mall centre manager, Sandi Human told Lowvelder that for safety reasons, the mall&#8217;s security blocked the area surrounding the iStore soon after the robbery occurred and asked customers to walk away from the shop.This may further have fuelled rumours that a hostage drama was under way.Albert Gryvenstein of Bossies Community Justice said a positive meeting took place between mall management and the various security companies yesterday morning, in order to put improved contingency plans in place.Dangers if spreading false information Gryvenstein also urged the public not to send or share any information on social-media platforms unless it had been verified by a sound source.When unverified information is shared, like a second car allegedly being used by the criminals, it wastes the time of the security officials on the lookout for the suspects,&#8221; Gryvenstein said.&#8220;Please do not go to the scene. There is absolutely no spectator value. Not only do you make the authorities&#8217; job more difficult but you are also putting yourself in harm&#8217;s way.&#8221;&nbsp;Pretorius confirmed that, in the end, only the jacket of one of the store&#8217;s personnel was stolen. No arrests have been made.Despite the paper&#8217;s request to publish images of the suspects on its website to help in the hunt, it was denied access to the CCTV footage.