MBOMBELA &#8211; State security has expressed concern that the country&#8217;s porous borders pose a terrorism threat. State security spokesman Brian Dube spoke to Lowvelder about an investigation into 26 illegal immigrants who walked out of Nelspruit Magistrate&#8217;s Court after receiving asylum transit permits on May 10.They were supposed to appear in front of an officer of a refugee centre within five working days of receiving their permits. The paper verified that all of them failed to appear on the dates instructed at any of the refugee centres in the country.Lowvelder is in possession of copies of all the documents and permits issued for the immigrants. Upon further investigation, the paper discovered that the addresses and telephone numbers given by the asylum seekers on the transit permits were fake.They were arrested on May 8. The police flying squad stopped a minibus on the KaMagugu Road. They discovered 27 undocumented people from Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Pakistan. The rear seats of the vehicle had been removed to accommodate the large number of people. The driver was also undocumented and arrested, but is married to a South African citizen. They were all apprehended for transgressing the Immigration Act.On the day of their arrest, a letter from Esselens Engelbrecht Attorneys instructed Adv Pieter Naude to entertain the matter and requested 26 asylum transit permits in view of the latest appeal court decision, the Bulla decision, from the Department of Home Affairs.Home affairs control immigration officer, Joseph du Plessis issued all 26 transit permits on May 9. The following day, prosecutor Oupa Ndlovu at the Nelspruit Magistrate&#8217;s Court dropped the cases against them upon receiving the permits.A police source identified three facilitators, who were seen with the immigrants as they left the court and are currently under investigation, as main players in a smuggling ring.A source with intimate knowledge of immigration said the main problem was that nobody knew exactly who was in South Africa. &#8220;Do we know who is entering our country? Are they a possible terrorist threat, are they merely looking for work, or are they being exploited? We have no answers as there is no proper control and checks.&#8221;Anti-human trafficking organisation, Tiny Hands, OR Tambo Airport site manager Thato Mabe said their organisation had picked up that Ethiopians were apparently being trafficked by their own people into the country. &#8220;We found many were trying to enter at the airport, but were sent away for their safety. Now we find that they are coming through the Lebombo border.&#8221;He said Pakistani citizens were also trafficking their own people for labour purposes in spaza shops around rural areas. &#8220;These societies are so closed up to outsiders, it is hard to infiltrate and find out what is happening to these people, and also the language barriers pose a problem.&#8221; He said their organisation would establish a base at the Lebombo border next month.State security minister, David Mahlobo said during his budget speech in parliament last week that the country continued to experience a high rate of entry of economic migrants into the country who claimed to be asylum seekers.He added that South Africans could also not afford to be complacent, given the extent of extremist ideology and propaganda being spread through the Internet and social media. &#8220;We will raise with parliament the legislative limitations that we have detected in terms of criminalising terrorism.&#8221;He said they are working with the collective of the law-enforcement agencies to ensure the effective implementation of the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy as outlined in the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy Implementation Plan.Home Affairs minister Hlengiwe Mkhize, in her speech, said their department was charged with establishing a Border Management Authority to efficiently manage the country&#8217;s ports of entry and the border line.The bill aims to centralise the responsibilities of, among others, the Department of Home Affairs, the army, police and SARS under one body to close any gaps in security.&#8220;The bill is necessitated by emerging instances of terror human trafficking due to the porous borders. Cabinet has approved the bill, and it is now going through parliamentary processes.&#8221;Despite these steps, Dube pointed out that illegal immigrants and South African citizens linked to terrorism were an issue of great importance regarding the safety of the country for the department.&#8220;Both are a concern for state security,&#8221; he concluded.