MBOMBELA &#8211; The EFF&#8217;s Mr Collen Sedibe said all members of the public who are against racism are welcome to join the protest against the assault of 19-year-old Mr Jabulane Mabilane at Nelspruit Golf Club (NGC) in October last year.&#8220;We want to send a message to everyone that racism is not accessible. Enough is enough. We cannot just relax and do nothing about it as it can bring our country to chaos,&#8221; Sedibe said.The EFF is disgusted and condemns the demon of racism which continues to happen 23 years under democratic order. We cannot tolerate it and allow it to continue happening under our watch.&#8221;Sedibe added that he had been in contact with the police and the City of Mbombela about the march and had arranged for the handing over of a memorandum.Lees ook: Gumede onttrek sy borgskap aan klubNGC general manager, Mr Darren Plumb, said he was aware of the march.&#8220;The club captain, Mr Zulu Cason, and myself will meet with the protesters to collect the memorandum,&#8221; he said.The committee will then address it and respond in a timeous manner.&#8221;The incident Lowvelder reported extensively on the incident which saw two of the five NGC members involved, suspended. Both were found guilty at the recent disciplinary inquiry held by the club on November 25, including Mabilane himself.A criminal case was also opened by 19-year-old golfer. He claimed that four men were present when he was allegedly beaten up on the golf course. All five members were provisionally suspended after the incident, pending the outcome of the inquiry.Both Mabilane and the other man, who allegedly assaulted him, were suspended from the club for 18 months. These sanctions were suspended for two years. The other three were cleared following the inquiry.Also read: Two found guilty of bringing golf club into disreputeGumede withdraws his sponsorship Millionaire Mr Robert Gumede withdrew his more than R1 million sponsorship to NGC this year, believed to have been for the annual Jock of the Bushveld Tournament hosted by the club.According to club president Mr Ralph Kirsten, Gumede cited &#8220;personal reasons&#8221; for his decision. The week-long tournament ends on Sunday. &nbsp;