 MBOMBELA – “We believe that she will be healed, God will heal her,” Verna Mulder (26) told Lowvelder on Monday. MRI scans revealed on Thursday that seven-month-old Mienke has suffered severe brain damage.  Doctors fear she will no longer be able to see, walk and possibly talk. She was hospitalised after she choked on her bottle while in the care of her day mother three weeks ago. She was rushed to Mediclinic Nelspruit after she stopped breathing. After she was resuscitated she was airlifted to Netcare Waterfall City in Midrand, Johannesburg. “The news of the MRI was not what we expected, and we are heartbroken about it,” Verna told Lowvelder. “But we find comfort in knowing that there are so many people praying for our little girl and that God is not done yet.”
She notified their supporters of the result early on Friday morning on the Facebook group, Please Pray for Mienke.  The family has received unprecedented support from members worldwide, with a growing following all praying for Mienke. At the time of going to press, more than 22 000 people were following the group. The group has developed its own identity, with many followers coming up with their own ways of showing their support to the family. Last week a follower urged others to wear pink in support of Mienke. This sparked a nationwide reaction and people across the country answered the call. Various companies and individuals, including Verna and husband Ryno’s colleagues at Mbombela PG Glass, as well as its head office, wore pink in solidarity with the family. Ryno took to the group to thank everyone for their continued support.
On Monday Mienke was still in the intensive care unit. Her mother said she was stable.
She was receiving speech therapy and she could not suck or swallow.
“She needs to learn to drink from her bottle again,” said Verna. A rehabilitation centre will possibly assess her later this week.
“We are not sure how long she will have to go to the rehab, which is in Auckland Park in Johannesburg,” she said. Regardless, Verna said that they believe that God will heal her. “We have to stay positive and we have to have faith.”