 MBOMBELA – Chris Hart slammed government’s labour policies this week, during a talk organised by the Possi Foundation on Wednesday at the Woodenways showroom in Riverside. The foundation was started by Keith Dryer (pictured here) in a drive to inspire society to adopt a more positive attitude to affect positive change in our communities. Hart, a researcher and strategist, who resigned from Standard Bank after sending a controversial tweet last year, is now the executive chairman for Impact Investment Africa which has its headquarters in Botswana. Also read: A positive mind, a positive business In his keynote address he indicated that we are entering the fourth industrial age: that of data. Hart argued that the people who could interpret this data, would benefit the most. Also read: Chris Hart speaks about second watershed He also spoke about the importance of the existence and generation of confidence in the value of our currency: “There is no intrinsic difference in value between a R10 note and a R200 note. The difference lies in the confidence which people place in the R200 note to get them more for their money. This is one of the key factors which will determine the health of our economy.” He noted that there were many problems facing our country. According to Hart, the three main ones are poverty, unemployment and inequality. These two guests were enthralled by Hart’s keynote address. They are made worse by three deficits namely the country’s current account, budget and household deficits. Toni Ponting and Annette Sears looked as if they were enjoying the event. These are in turn responsible for the three main mistakes which the country and its leaders are making. Paramount is the labour regime,the overregulation of businesses and the tax structure which predominantly targets capital formation. Pete Hughes, Richard Herring and Bill Sears stayed long after the keynote address to talk with one another. Hart agrees with most other economists that businesses are overregulated. This prevents them from employing more people thereby making the unemployment problem worse.Ironically, this continues the cycle of poverty, according to Hart, who explained the policies keeping people poor were really meant to help include them in the economy. Roy Wakefield and Brian Beyers. at the event. He concluded on a realistically optimistic note. “Despite all the circumstances facing the country, there are risks and opportunities. You can decide to be a refugee and flee, or you can become an entrepreneur who sees the openings and uses opportunities to make pots and pots of money.”