 Ms Nora Fakude, executive chairman of Buscor, is afraid to fail. Not so afraid that she will not start, but so afraid that she will not stop. She has run the gamut in business during her hugely successful career, and has first-hand experience of going it alone. Having to fight from the beginning, first to obtain an education and later to make a success of her business endeavours, she learned to make the most of the opportunities that came her way. She has learnt to survive. “There was poverty and poverty and poverty. Out of that poverty, we learned to survive.”  When she left for school, there was nothing to take with her. Instead she started selling the cream she used. This assisted her mother in paying her fees and obtaining pocket money, or just to afford her transport home. A general trend throughout her life story remains: nothing is easy. Once she achieved a manner of success it remained true: doing business is difficult. A steadfast refusal to fail, for the sake of her children and her employees, has to a large extent kept her going. Lizelle’s comments on Nora My first impressions of Ms Fakude is that of a very caring, sweet Lady. But I had no idea of exactly how amazing she is! She believes in giving back to the community and does more than what is expected from one person. She is not just an amazing Business Woman, but also a very special person. It was an honour to meet her and spend some time with her; to see how many lives she is touching on a daily basis.  DO YOU BELIEVE THAT CORPORATE COMPANIES SHOULD DO MORE FOR THEIR COMMUNITIES?  LAST IMPORTANT THOUGHTS THAT WILL MAKE US STRONGER IN BUSINESS? How many buses are in the Buscor fleet?
We have currently 424 buses in Buscor including the Semi Lux buses. Almost all are MAN HB4 buses with the exception of 12 HB3 buses which are our new Bi-Art buses. We are currently testing a Scania bus that is on Demo, and will be with us for a duration of six months for evaluation. Photo credit: Ludwig Sevenster Photography How many people travel with Buscor buses per month, per week and per day?
As per our Website, we transport more than 136000 passengers daily. I think I would rather leave that as is. Photo credit: Ludwig Sevenster Photography What security measurements are in place to ensure the safe traveling of your passengers?
In the instance of the security measure at the bus terminus, there is visible security in the terminus policing and monitoring the area. They do confiscate liquor from passengers, and I would like to believe that they do act in the best interests of the passengers to make the environment in the bus more relaxed than having the passengers tensed and volatile with a possible drunkard on the bus. The turnstiles at our terminus that allows access to the bus platform will only turn once a valid ticket is swiped, thus only passengers carrying valid tickets are allowed at the platform to board a bus to their destination. Our buses are inspected regularly to ensure that our fleet is in a good standard, the standard used is of the same as a vehicle that would get tested to at a vehicle testing station, a road worthiness test if you will. Our vehicles are serviced in accordance to mileage traveled, kilometer service, as well as a bi-yearly service that takes place in the month that a vehicle would go for a road worthiness test. Photo credit: Ludwig Sevenster Photography What is the most important value that Buscor lives by? The value that is most important within Buscor is, “To be a Safe, Reliable and Affordable transport to our passengers and communities”   Photo credits: Ludwig Sevenster Photography