 MBOMBELA – Big and small and old and new leaders in business and tourism were recognised for their role in the local community at Emnotweni. The KLCBT’s black-tie showcase of local business’ accomplishments and ethics and their contributions to the community also selected the five special awards in categories where there were no finalists. James Aling was presented with the KLCBT leadership awards for HL Halls & Sons’ contribution to the community and economic growth of the region and its deep roots in society. Here are Johan Barnard, James Aling and Nick Elliot. Photo: Hennie Homann / HH Photography Nico van Zyl was named Bidvest Car Rental business personality. The legendary, 90-year-old Old Joe was named the Hotels.com tourism personality. Chris Christie won the MLF philanthropy award. Here are David Jacobsz, Wouter de Witt (Ghost) and Solange Soares-Nicholson with Old Joe. Photo: Hennie Homann / HH Photography The MLF Philantropy award went to Chris Christi snr. Here is Christopher Christi jnr with TJ Maré. Photo: Iconic Management Two presented for the first time were for innovation in tourism and the webbie award. Innovation in Tourism: Etienne Soiné, Linda Grimbeek and Henriette van Twisk. Photo: Iconic Management Lowveld Media won the Roan Systems webbie award. Crossing SUPERSPAR tourism large enterprise: Southern Sun Emnotweni. Here are Etienne Soiné, Michelle Higgo and Christopher Christi. Photo: Iconic Management  Kruger Mpumalanga International Airport tourism SMME: Aviation Adventures Flying Club. Here are Etienne Soiné, Wally van Welie and Charl du Plessis. Photo: Iconic Management • Shumba large business: Konica Minolta Mpumalanga • Tracker Connect medium business: Wildman Nelspruit • Nedbank Retail and Business Banking small business: Cowley Paints • Sappi Nelspruit community service: GRIP • Halls Properties Alan Bachelor environmental: Mountainlands Nature Reserve and Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency • AON SA Entrepreneur: Mpumalanga Newshorn. The Swazi Tenors entertained the guests with a brilliant tribute to Il Divo, Josh Groban and other popular classic crossover songs. Photo: Iconic Management The catering from Emnotweni was outstanding as usual, which added to the success of a delightful, well-organised prestige evening that the Lowveld could be proud of. KLCBT chairman, TJ Maré. Photo: Hennie Homann / HH Photography Oupa Pilane. Photo: Hennie Homann / HH Photography Sandra and Kobus Jacobs.  Charney Jooste and Gerhard van der Westhuizen.  Lidiwe and Khosi Sibande, Goitsi Tsikudu and Lebo Mgiba. Albie and Bettie Pretorius, Cecilia Kaufman and Frans Pretorius.   