 MBOMBELA – In a bid to promote safe shooting practices and firearm sports with all proceeds going to the Bossies Community Justice, eight teams competed in a shooting championship at the Canary Walk Indoor Shooting Range on Saturday September 16. Read more: Bossie’s Community Justice: Where it all started According to Leon Steenkamp, main organiser of the event, the day was about having fun, improving scores and contributing to funds which are used to keep up the good work done by the Bossies team. Dawie Theron, Dirk Becker and Leon Steenkamp. Photo: supplied Each team consisted of four members and competed in three different categories, hand guns, shotguns and semi-automatic rifles shooting at a distance of 65 metres. Read more: Bossies Community Justice experts at crime scenes The teams were scored according to accuracy and time, with some of the teams doing extremely well when compared to professional standards. Although the aim of the day was competition, a friendly vibe reigned at the Canary Walk indoor shooting range with old and young having their go at toppling targets and going for the “head shot.” Rosco Becker and Shaun Nieuwenhuizen. Photo: Hancu Louw “I think it’s a great initiative, safe shooting practices need to be promoted and what better way to do it than through a day like this. It’s a great reason to come together to burn some lead and blow off some steam among like-minded people,” said Mickey Erasmus of Team Craffy. Read more: Bossies Community Justice and Hi-Tech Nelspruit on patrol Team Craffy took the title in the senior division with the Bergendal Trust team placing second. Only one team competed in the junior division, but the boys had a blast, “I like shooting because it’s a great sport and it teaches me to be responsible with a firearm,” said Morne Craffert. Dawie Theron and the Bergendal Trust team who placed second. Photo: supplied Some of the higher powered weapons used on the day were a Saiga 340 shotgun and a JP Enterprises 223 semi-automatic rifle. A total of R 8 000 was raised for the Bossies Community Justice team with three companies contributing funds and refreshments for the day, “We would like to extend our thanks to Solo Air-conditioning, Plaza SUPERSPAR and Frane Scrap Metal for their contributions and support,” said Mandy Botha of the Canary Walk indoor shooting range. Kobus Pieters, Danie Theron, LJ Steenkamp, Handré Craffert and Leon Steenkamp. Photo: supplied