 MBOMBELA – The Tops at SPAR Lowveld Oktoberfest promises to be an action-packed day. It will feature air show displays, live music, an oompah band and sing-a-longs, a variety of craft and draught beers, competitions, kiddies’ entertainment area, fireworks display and laser show, and German food. Oktoberfest is a beer festival dating from the 1800s. Today, it has become an event where people celebrate with family and friends and let their hair down as they reflect on the year that is soon coming to an end. Tops at SPAR has come on board as the title sponsor of the 2017 event and is extremely excited to host the magnificent Lowveld Oktoberfest in its home province.  Chairman of the Oktoberfest committee, Johan Heine explained, “We are bringing out all the stops for this one, from genuine bratwurst, to our staff in full costume, to home-brewed craft beers from some of our local brewers. It will be a very special day. “It has taken a lot of planning and hard work to get to this stage, but we are now ready for the first ever Tops at SPAR Lowveld Oktoberfest. We are hoping for great weather but whatever is thrown at us, the event will be great.” Sabie Brewing Co, Big Buddie BBQ Brewing Co, Owl & Hare Craft Brewery and Hops Hollow Brewing will be showcasing the best beer that they have on offer. The Hofbräuhaus Oompah Band will be bringing an authentic German vibe when they take to the stage in the afternoon and evening. There will also be performances by local bands.  Patrons can also come dressed in their best lederhosen or dirndl to stand a chance to win great prizes. These traditional garments are, unlike what many believe, not in fact Germany’s national dress. Lederhosen and dirndl are traditional Bavarian attire, and can be traced as far back as the 1600s. They were worn by farmers, shepherds, carpenters and peasants for outdoor work (for the men) and indoor housework (for the women). A dirndl includes a white blouse (with a bodice) which is generally very short (ends above the waist), with long, short or puffed sleeves. It can have many different necklines and is usually made of white cotton or linen. The most traditional form of the dirndl is a long skirt which goes to the ankle. The modern version is often shorter. Lederhosen (leather pants) are traditionally worn with high socks which can go up to the knees. Naturally there is a shirt to go with the lederhosen. Typically it is a plain or a white plaid shirt of any colour. In full costumes, the lederhosen also has suspenders. True traditional lederhosen might have coloured embroidery or insignia to signify from which region the wearer comes from. Visit https://lowveldairshow.co.za/oktoberfest2017/ to obtain tickets and learn the words for the official Oktoberfest song. Date: Saturday October 28 Place: Nelspruit Airfield, Kaapsehoop Road Time: From 12:00 onwards Price: R120 per adults, kids free entrance. The first 1 000 tickets bought will receive a free collector’s beer mug and a choice of two local craft beers from the event’s brewing partners, all valued at R160.