 MBOMBELA – Four controversial cases were on the courts’ rolls recently. Lowvelder keeps readers updated on newsworthy developments. 
• Three alleged drug dealers appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Hassani Hamissi Kichuje, Amri Juma Hamidu and Hafinda Chaude were arrested for the alleged possession of R160 000 worth of heroin on September 21. On Friday, Chaude applied for bail. He was released after paying R20 000. Kichuje and Hamidu will remain in custody until the trio’s next court appearance in December. The exact date of has not yet been confirmed. The three men accused of possessing drugs. • Two policemen and four others accused of rhino poaching will appear in the Graskop Circuit Court on Thursday. Const Simanga Mnisi and Const Manguni Nyalunga from Masoyi Police Station and Bandile Gamede, Sakile Habile, Alex Mlambo and Syco Ngoma were arrested on November 19 last year. It is alleged that the policemen used an official vehicle to assist their co-accused with poaching-related activities. This allegation was aired after suspicious items were reportedly found in the police bakkie they had been driving. Lowvelder was able to confirm that two of the accused, the policemen, have been released on bail.  • Eugene Scheepers, an employee of Barberton Correctional Services, appeared in the Barberton Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. He was charged with the murder of his girlfriend, WO Charlotte de Beer, in March. De Beer died on December 16, 2015. For a year, the police held that she had committed suicide. Murder was only considered after an inquest outcome suggested that De Beer had not, in fact, killed herself. Lowvelder received confirmation that the case will be transferred to the Mpumalanga High Court. Scheepers’ next appearance date must still be confirmed. Ethel Mdluli. • Ethel Mdluli appeared in the White River Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. She stands accused of orchestrating her husband, Solomon’s murder along with two others. He was the principal of Mahlatse Secondary School in Nkomazi. Her co-accused are Peter Khoza and Xolani Mngwenya. The three were arrested on March 16 after Solomon had been strangled and suffocated with a plastic bag. Khoza was previously released on bail of R10 000. Their court appearance was brief and the case postponed to November 29.