 MBOMBELA – Baby Mienke’s parents are considering stem-cell transplantation to help their little girl. According to Verna, various people suggested the procedure to them. They have since called a specialist to explain it to them in detail before they make a final decision. “As a parent you do whatever it takes to help your child,” Verna told Lowvelder on Monday. “If it is something that helps her, then we can consider it,” she added.  Mienke is undergoing rehabilitation at Netcare Rehabilitation Hospital in Auckland Park, Johannesburg. She suffered severe brain damage after she choked on her bottle while in the care of her day mother two months ago. The eight-month old will have to undergo the rehabilitation for 16 weeks, which may have to be extended, to help her suck, sit and balance her neck again. According to Verna, Mienke’s rehabilitation has had its challenges, as she gets agitated when she is touched.  Therapists have used water therapy to help her calm down when working with her. MRI scans showed that as a result of her brain damage, she might not be able to see and possibly never learn to walk and talk. An eye specialist will visit her tomorrow to confirm if she cannot see. The stem cell specialist will visit the parents on Thursday.
According Dr Hein van Wyk, a stem-cell specialist in White River, stem-cell transplantation for Mienke may be a good idea. Such transplants are good for neuroinflammation, which is swelling in the nervous system.  He suggests doing a platelet-rich plasma (PRP) transplant, in which the platelets go to the damaged area and remove the inflammation. Inflammation in the brain limits its function.
“The platelets have two effects; one is that they guide the stem cells where to go in the affected area.” PRP is a concentrate of platelet-rich plasma protein, derived from whole blood centrifuged to remove red blood cells. It has a greater concentration of growth factors than whole blood, and has been used to encourage a quick healing response across several specialities. Van Wyk explained that an everyday example of how stem cells work is in the event that you cut yourself. Your blood clots to stop you from bleeding further. In that way your stem cells are activated to close your wound. “Babies have them already. All that needs to happen is to have them activated,” said Van Wyk. Stem cells go a long way to healing injuries, inflammation of tissue, degenerative conditions and lung conditions including emphysema.