 MBOMBELA – The family of the runner who was killed in a hit and run accident on the Uitkyk Road this morning, says Johanica Orton was training for January’s Ironman in East London. “Our family is broken,” her brother in law, Johan Orton, told Lowvelder. “We appreciate everyone’s messages of support. Please pray for us, especially for my brother, André and Johanica’s mother, brother and sister.” It is believed that she died on impact after a car hit her during her morning run. Bossies Community Justice (BCJ) Albert Gryvenstein and detectives had traced the suspect who is believed to be in his 50’s and arrested him this afternoon. Police spokesman, Capt Dawie Pretorius, said a suspect has been taken into police custody. . He will be charged with culpable homicide after leaving the scene of the accident. More charged could be added. A memorial service is planned for Thursday. More detail will be shared as it becomes available. MBOMBELA – A young female jogger from LVCC was tragically killed this morning in a hit and run. According to Bossies Community Justice’s (BCJ) Albert Gryvenstein, the incident occurred at the Rest near Bateleur Estate at around  08:30. He said a bystander had seen the woman jogging earlier. When she looked again she saw the woman lying next to the road. “This is when we were called out. I immediately phoned an ambulance.” ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Pedestrian killed in Ferreira Street after car ploughs into group ER24 paramedic Kim Habib said the woman who is believed to be in her 20s was declared dead at the scene. Gryvenstein added that witnesses said a vehicle was seen which had suspicious damage to it in the area was a white Kia. The victim’s name is known to Lowvelder, but cannot be shared as not all of her family members have been informed of her death. Anyone with information that might help to identify the driver and vehicle can contact Albert on 082 567 5212. *Lowvelder previously used a feature image for illustration purposes that depicted a beacon on the Uitkyk road. The publication wishes to emphasize that the beacon reflected on the image, Bateleur Estate, was in no way connected to the incident. Lowvelder apologises for any inconvenience caused.