 WHITE RIVER – Collen Banda is the owner of a small business called Netcom Marketing, which focuses on web design and development, graphic design, branding and digital marketing. Banda completed part of his schooling in Zambia before moving to White River, where he subsequently completed his matric in 2009 at Angels Park Academy. “Our parents were not wealthy, but they provided for us,” he says of his childhood. “They were tenacious when it came to pursing their dream of giving us a better education and ensuring that we were independent.” Read more:  Top tips for people looking to start their own business In 2012, Banda completed a BTech higher national diploma. In 2014 he obtained his BSc in computer science from Heriot Watt University through the CTI Education Group. The concept for his business was born during his studies: “It stemmed from a project we had to pitch in class, that I did very well in. After this project, I wanted to start my own business. There was just one problem: I had to develop relevant skills. When I completed my BSc I said, ‘This is it, I’m going for it”. Banda started the business in 2015. He was 25. At first he only freelanced: “This work allowed me to expose my skills and knowledge to the general public. I basically started with nothing, just personal service. It was not easy but I am glad I did it, because it gave me the head start which I needed.” In September the following year, he was joined by Afika Mpungane, who is now the company’s account and sales manager. Read more: Quinton Coetzee’s 10 pointers to business success Banda enjoys having his own business, but it is not without its fair share of challenges: “Spreading the word about the existence of my business is still a major challenge. Another is finding a sufficient number of paying customers.We are also struggling to get the capital we need to purchase the printing machinery which we currently outsource.” Are you #MakingIt? Lowvelder wants to tell your story. Contact us at editorial@lowvelder.co.za.