 SKUKUZA – SANParks, the Organisation for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Nsasani Trust collaborated to establish the Skukuza Science Leadership Initiative at the science leadership campus. OTS has been running field-based experiential training courses in higher education with SANParks Scientific Services in and around the park since 2004. In 2013, it signed a memorandum of understanding with the Nsasani Trust, which focuses on providing human capital development programmes for the South African bio-diversity sector. “We are grateful to OTS and Nsasani Trust for the partnership in the creation of this outstanding facility and believe it will provide opportunities for scientists and students to collaborate in producing important research findings for the management of protected areas and conservation of biodiversity in general,”said Dr Luthando Dziba, managing executive of SANParks Conservation Services. “SANParks is famous for its high standards in conservation management and this facility will further elevate SANParks’ contribution to the development of future science and conservation leaders.” The launching ceremony was attended by Dr William Bond, chief scientist of the South African Environmental Observation Network. He thanked the parties responsible through the years for opening the previously very close environment of the Kruger National Park (KNP), since the park is now “at the heart of savannah science research”. Bond emphasised the need for new researchers and that the relevant park staff needed to develop more confidence in the scientific field. “Africa needs policies informed by scientists who know and understand the continent,” he said. Danie Pienaar, head of SANParks Scientific Services told guests how the initiative developed since the time when they used the traditional “slow tourism seasons” for scientific courses, until they started to assist OTS in 2004 and involved Nsasani Trust in 2013, to help find young scientists in local communities. “We signed a 20-year contract with them as our contribution to human capital development and the project now forms part of our corporate social investment programme,” he said. Dr Ed Stashko, director of OTS Education Global Programmes spoke about the power of persistence and partnerships and expressed his gratitude about being part of the initiative. Karen Vickers, director of Nsasani Trust, thanked the teams involved in the development of the Skukuza Science Leadership Initiative and Dr Laurence Kruger, OTS director of the South African programmes, said this approach will ensure training of local students and foster mutually beneficial partnerships between scientists and neighbouring communities. “It gives us the opportunity to share the privilege of education with others, which is also a form of creating social justice,” he said. Aproximately 300 students were already trained through the Nsasani Trust. “The facility itself can demonstrate the potential for minimising environmental impact with the way in which design and materials can reduce the environmental footprint in all aspects of daily living,” he added. KNP managing executive, Glenn Phillips reiterated that the park was not inwardly focused as it used to be, but that its management plan for the next 10 years had moved to incorporate adjacent communities into the core of development, hence their enthusiastic participation in the initiative. In addition to the lecture theatre, the science centre has a library and laboratory and includes plans for a kitchen/dining hall, as well as student and staff accommodation. The facility’s “green” roof, which keeps the centre cool in summer, will be used for botanical experiments.  The centre is built with “green” technology. Dr Luthando Dziba cuts the ceremonial ribbon, accompanied by Dr Laurence Kruger and Mr Glenn Phillips. Possible future scientific leader Jemima McNally inspects the facilities of the Skukuza Science Centre.  