 SKUKUZA – Avid animal lovers rejoiced with Lucy the lucky lioness in the Kruger National Park (KNP) when a snare around her neck  was removed after the sighting was shared to the Facebook group “Enough is Enough”. Lize Bester from White River, who administrates the group, said Kara Beukes, a field guide for Nhongo Safaris, spotted the lioness during a late afternoon drive. She sent a photo and GPS coordinates to Bester, who alerted veterinarians in the park. They removed the snare and cleaned the wound. With antibiotics to curb infection, she was soon ready for a roaring new life. Read Lucy’s story here. Lucy the lioness being immobilised to remove a snare. At the time of going to press, rangers were also aware of and searching for several snared hyenas spotted near Kruger and Phabeni gates. 
“They are the most difficult to locate and rescue, because they hide quickly and efficiently,” said Bester, who urged visitors to be on the lookout for them. She explained that it is important to take photos of the affected animal. “We recently had a case of two elephants spotted with snares around their legs in the same vicinity shortly after each other. Only after we scrutinised different photos did we realise that it was not the same animal.” Visitors should report the date and time of a sighting with information on the type of animal, position of the snare on the body, the road number and approximate distance from a turn-off, a photo and a GPS reading to Bester. She will alert the coordinator of services in the park, who will register it at the Joint Operational Centre, from where the message will be conveyed to rangers, the SANDF, the SAPS and the veterinary services in the area where the animal was reported. Bester receives no monetary reward for running the group, which began when she detected a problem and decided to do something instead of complaining. “When visitors notice snares, call official numbers and don’t get answers, they freak out, often leading to unnecessary mudslinging. I decided that diplomatic interference was necessary and contacted a well-placed person in the KNP. “We decided to take hands and make things happen.” She also has contact with other groups and field guides, since they are important eyes on the ground. The park personnel are the helping and healing hands. Early on Monday the Facebook group put people’s minds at ease about a dead elephant spotted in the Phabeni area.
“It was a natural death, with its tusks removed by the section ranger, and not a poaching incident as many feared,” Bester said. “Enough is Enough” keeps statistics of all the animals reported and provides them to park officials to avoid duplication of cases. “We already made a difference in a few animals’ lives,” said Bester, who can be reached on 082-458-6227.