 MBOMBELA – Annatjie Myburgh’s alleged killers are set to stand trial for her kidnapping and murder in 2018, almost two full years after her disappearance left the Lowveld in shock. Selby Mabila and Paul Mathebula appeared in the Mpumalanga High Court on Monday. They have been in custody since their arrest in July last year. The pair will remain behind bars until their next court appearance on April 16, 2018. The case has been enrolled for five days.  Sixteen months ago, Myburgh’s abduction and death sent shock waves through the country. When she failed to show up at work on June 15, 2016, J&M Security was alerted. Investigators from the private security sector and police members gathered at the Curlews home that Annatjie shared with her husband, Wendell. Upon their arrival at the gate, they found two pangas and Annatjie’s glasses lying on the ground. Her Pajero was gone. Hundreds of locals partook in a massive search for the 58-year-old woman who had believed to be missing. Search teams covered a wide area including Barberton, Malalane, Mashishing, Hazyview and settlements surrounding the Kruger National Park. A R31 000 reward was promised to an informant whose contribution would lead to the successful arrest and prosecution of her kidnappers. Four days later, intelligence from an informant lead investigators to her abandoned Pajero in KaBokewni. Its wheels had been stripped. Her body was found close to the KNP’s border in the Numbi area.  Police reported that she had no visible injuries. Two post-mortems were conducted to ascertain how she died.
Selby Mabila and Paul Mathebula were arrested and charged with kidnapping and murder in the White River Magistrate’s Court on June 20 and 21. At the time the post-mortems were performed, Magistrate Eddie Mabaso said the results were not yet available. Mabaso stressed that, because these reports take a long time to compile and it is done in another province, the trial may not proceed for months. At the time of going to press, Lowvelder could not confirm whether these reports would be available during their next court appearance.