 MBOMBELA – According to a notice published by Eskom today, the City of Mbombela Local Municipality is currently indebted to Eskom to the amount of R152 359 093 for the bulk supply of electricity, part of which has been outstanding and in escalation since September 2016. Also read: Residents up in arms over Eskom power cut notice “City of Mbombela Local Municipality’s breach of its payment obligation to Eskom undermines and places in jeopardy Eskom’s ability to continue the national supply of electricity on a financially sustainable basis,” read the notice. The Municipal Manager of the CMLM, Neil Diamond however alleges that the notice has been circulated in bad faith as representatives of the CMLM met with Eskom to discuss the current debt. “The City of Mbombela is shocked at the double standards used by Eskom in their dealings with municipalities in Mpumalanga,” stated Diamond in an official response on the supply interruption notice published by Eskom in the Mpumalanga News on Thursday. Also read: Mbombela electricity to be cut due to Eskom debt Daimond said that the Eskom account was prioritized and all accounts were cleared by August 2017. Diamond confirmed that the CFO has been in discussion with Chris Lekhuleni of Eskom since October 18 and the CMLM was lead to believe that an agreement was reached between Mbombela and Eskom. Diamond gave residents and ratepayers the assurance that the matter is enjoying attention at the highest level and will be resolved before any power interruption. “We value our residents, ratepayers and business community and will ensure that this matter is resolved timeously to avoid any interruption of electricity to Mbombela,” said Diamond. Also read: Eskom to go ahead with power cuts According to the notice the contemplated interruption of electricity supply will result in temporary scheduled disconnection at the following times. Monday to Friday
06:00 – 08:00 and 17:00 – 19:30
Saturday and Sunday
08:30 – 11:00 and 15:00 – 17:30 Nelsrivier, Delta, Mbombela Stadium, Barberton and White River are to be affected. Also read: Still no answers: paid-up residents fuming over power cuts  