 WHITE RIVER – A host of government officials has embarked on an investigation into an alleged bogus school. Lowvelder alerted authorities about the “school” last Friday after visiting the premises. About 70 youngsters, most of them claiming to be from Lebombo Technical College in Naas, Nkomazi, attended the “school” to prepare them for their matric exams. Those who spoke to Lowvelder said they had paid R3 000 for the two-month study camp. That did not include transport costs which the learners had to pay themselves. Housing and meals would be included in the price. Instead they were served biscuits and tea twice a day and slept in the halls of the building housing the said “school”.  It is located in the street opposite the White River Magistrate’s Court. They shared a single toilet where they also had to take their baths. “There is no privacy, everyone baths in the same place and sleeps in the same place,” one said. They asked to remain anonymous for fear of victimisation.
They claimed that many more pupils were on their way to the camp. It was initially supposed to have been in Mbombela, but they were told en route that they were being taken to White River instead.  “They came and asked for food because they were left hungry from the measly amount they were given,” said a woman from one of the businesses located in the same building as the “school”.  “It is sad that they have to go through this considering some of the children’s parents took out loans for them to be here.”
Some said they had reported the matter to the police. “They told us to protest outside the building and maybe we will be taken seriously,” one said.
White River police spokesman, Sgt Cynthia Mbokodo denied this and, upon investigation, after being alerted about the school by the newspaper, said the learners denied having problems.  Various departments, including the police, visited the school on Wednesday.  Department of Education spokesman, Jasper Zwane said it was definitely not a legal, registered school. “That is not a school. It cannot be recognised as one and we are now waiting on their reports to see if we can get a court order to shut it down. It is important that we ensure the safety of our children,” he told Lowvelder. According to Zwane, the province hosted free provincial spring classes from October 2 to 6, aimed at preparing learners for the upcoming final exams.”Despite this, it is sad that our people still fall for these things. At this moment we are still waiting on the various reports and then we can decide on a way forward,” he concluded.  Lebombo Technical College is a registered company. Lowvelder‘s attempts to get hold of the owner have proved unsuccessful, with all the numbers listed for the establishment appearing to be bogus. Zwane said the department had also not been able to track down the owners.