 THULAMAHASHE –  The Rotarians for Family Health and Aids Prevention (RFHA), in collaboration with the National Department of Health, Rotary International, Gilead Sciences, the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, USAID, the SABC Foundation and Caxton, partnered to promote access to a free full package of health screening services for all family members.  The public-private partnership was initiated simultaneously in 120 areas across the country. Minister of health, Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, attended the official opening at Thulamahashe Stadium. Leonard Malumane, introduces the minister of health. In his keynote address he emphasised the importance of the event. “The Rotary Family Health events being hosted countrywide will offer a comprehensive set of health services. I call on all parents and caregivers to ensure that the entire family takes advantage of these services.” Motsoaledi also spoke about importance of building a bright future for young girls in the country. “We have to intensify our efforts and prioritise our adolescent girls and young women, to make sure that they realise their full potential and have opportunities to make sure that they and their families have a better life.” Members of the public who attended the event could make use of a number of free health services, including diabetes, hypertension and TB screenings and HIV/Aids counselling and testing.    There was also a station where people could receive information about the She Conquers campaign. Through a combined effort by various members of society, the campaign aims to decrease new HIV infections in teenage girls and young women, decrease teen pregnancies, ensure that girls remain in school, decrease sexual and gender-based violence, and increase economic opportunities for adolescents. Mrs Makhosazana Masilela gives the vote of thanks. In addition, the public could also receive information on how to live a healthy lifestyle.Anyone seeking more information about the campaign is encouraged to call 080-001-2322 toll-free or visit rfhdsouthafrica.org or www.health.gov.za.  