 MBOMBELA – The humble Timele Greening Project Co-op from Luphisi Village has proved what hard work can achieve when they walked away with the KLCBT and Halls Properties Environmental Award last year. 
Since then the initiative has grown by leaps and bounds.
It now boasts a new partnership with PETCO, based on the volumes of bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate it collects. These bottles are recycled, reducing the amount of waste going into landfills.
Luphisi was the first rural community in Mpumalanga to be engaged in waste management this way.
Founder, Jack Magongo explained that Luphisi was plagued by waste and illegal dumping and also experienced severe food security challenges.
“I identified this village to give people dignity and create balance in the environment. My initiative creates awareness and includes cleanup campaigns in the community, schools and streets,” said Magongo.
He started Timele in 2013, with a volunteer team of 12 women.
They started to clean the stream to Skukuza and the Mluti River, so that goats and cattle could have clean drinking water.
The participating women get no stipend or grant, and use wheelbarrows to collect waste. 
During the next two years the project expanded to such an extent that it received Mpumalanga Environment Education Forum recognition.
It created 12 job opportunities.
Greens Recycling in Mbombela became the buyer of the recyclables, and the DEA gave Timele a licence for raw waste under the International Water Supply Association. 
Since then the project has grown even more. The Department of Agriculture donated garden tools.
The Endangered Wildlife Trust signed a memorandum of understanding for rare species identification assistance in the rural areas with Timele. More recently, PETCO brought a broad-based black economic empowerment market partnership to the project.
This year Timele Greening Project donated 40 kilograms of vegetables to Luphisi Clinic and 60 kilograms to Luphisi Drop-in Centre. 
It cleaned the streets and premises of Lapesi Primary School.
Timele established an art project for the elderly, with the creations being displayed at Bongani Mountain Lodge.
Luphisi is approximately 20 kilometres from the southern border of the Kruger National Park and has about 80 000 residents.
An average of seven people share one house, with only one of them employed or a grant beneficiary. Magongo can be reached on 076-483-1480.