Lowvelder readers stand a chance to win four entrance tickets to the highly anticipated Tops at SPAR Lowveld Oktoberfest 2017, presented by the Kishugu Lowveld Air Show. This authentic German festival is taking place on Saturday, 28 October 2017 from 12:00 onwards. All you have to do is look for your hidden Old Joe in today’s printed edition, and if yours has a Lowveld Media stamp on it, you could be a winner! Don’t forget to bring along your Old Joe 90 map to prove that you are participating in the competition. With his big bushy German mustache, this week’s Old Joe is the true reflection of what we think a real German looks like. Old Joe’s white and blue hat, resembles the internationally acknowledged colours of Oktoberfests across the world, and hopefully Old Joe will encourage all visitors to come dressed in their best Lederhosen or Dirndl dress.  Old Joe goes German  with Tops at SPAR Lowveld Oktoberfest 2017 There is something special about a traditional Oktoberfest celebration that you just can’t deny. And the Tops at SPAR Lowveld Oktoberfest will recreate that exact feeling of walking into the main beer halls in Munich, by making sure all the details are there. “We are bringing out all the stops for this one – from genuine bratwurst to our staff in full costume to homebrewed craft beers from some of our local brewers.  It will be a very special day.” says Johan Heine, Chairman of the Oktoberfest Committee.  But what would an Oktoberfest be without music? The Hofbräuhaus Oompah Band will be bringing an authentic German vibe when they take to the stage in the afternoon and evening. There will also be performances by local bands for variation.  The organisers are encouraging visitors to come dressed in their best German attire to win great prizes. German traditional wear would be a Lederhosen for men and a Dirndl dress for the ladies. More details on the Oktoberfest dress code are on our website.  Tops at SPAR Lowveld has come onboard as the title sponsor of the 2017 event, and is excited to host a Lowveld Oktoberfest in its home province.  If entertainment is what you’re after, then look no further. Over and above the live music, the Oktoberfest will bring you a mini air show, a range of competitions, a kids play area and a fireworks display to toast to the year.  Local breweries, such as, Sabie Brewing Co, Big Buddie BBQ Brewing Co, Owl & Hare Craft Brewery and Hops Hollow Brewing will be showcasing the best beer that they offer on the day. The Tops at SPAR Lowveld Oktoberfest offers the opportunity for Lowvelder to taste these local breweries all in one place.  Tickets are on sale now on Lowveld Air Show’s website at R120 per adult. Children under the age of 18 will enjoy free entrance. The first 1,000 tickets bought will receive a free collector’s glass beer mug and a choice of two local craft beers from the event’s brewing partners, all valued at R160.