 MBOMBELA – Unleash your inner German at the Oktoberfest, which will be taking place on Saturday October 28 at the Nelspruit Airfield. The Oktoberfest promises to deliver only the best craft beers from the district, an air show, live music and oompah band, a range of competitions, kiddies’ entertainment area, fireworks display and authentic German cuisine. Read more: World’s biggest beer festival Oktoberfest opens in Munich This follows the success of the Kishugu Lowveld Air Show, which attracted over 7 000 spectators. In a bid to add to the variety of festivals in the Lowveld, the Lowveld Air Show committee decided to host an authentic Oktoberfest. The aim of hosting an Oktoberfest in Mbombela will be to enrich the experiences of the local community, as it will create comradery among Lowvelders and offer residents the opportunity to come together as a family and have an enjoyable day, according to Naranda Leeuwener, group executive for corporate communications at Kishugu. “The philosophy of the Lowveld Air Show Committee is to first and foremost support local entrepreneurs, and give them a platform to showcase themselves,” explained Johan Heine, chairperson of the Oktoberfest. “This committee comprises of various entities, whereof Kishugu is also a role player.” Read more: Come fly with Kishugu Aviation Training Organisation He said Kishugu sees the benefit of investing in the local community by sponsoring events like these. Therefore, other companies that share in these values are encouraged to join and become involved as sponsors. Local breweries, such as Big Buddie BBQ Brewing Co, Owl & Hare Craft Brewery, Sabie Brewing Co and Hops Hollow Brewing will gain marketing exposure with people who might not have heard of them before. Read more: Up in the air at the Kishugu Lowveld Airshow Visit lowveldairshow.co.za to book tickets at R120 per person. The first 1 000 customers will receive a free collector’s beer mug and a choice of two craft beers from the event’s brewing partners valued at R160. If you would like to become a sponsor of this event, contact Johan on 082-456-5909.